FINANCIAL INDUSTRY REGULATORY AUTHORITY
LETTER OF ACCEPTANCE, WAIVER, AND CONSENT
NO. 2018056490309
TO:

Department of Enforcement
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA)

RE:

Tory A. Duggins (Respondent)
General Securities Representative
CRD No. 4556340

Pursuant to FINRA Rule 9216, Respondent Tory A. Duggins submits this Letter of Acceptance,
Waiver, and Consent (AWC) for the purpose of proposing a settlement of the alleged rule
violations described below. This AWC is submitted on the condition that, if accepted, FINRA
will not bring any future actions against Respondent alleging violations based on the same
factual findings described in this AWC.
I.
ACCEPTANCE AND CONSENT
A.

Respondent accepts and consents to the following findings by FINRA without admitting
or denying them:
BACKGROUND
Duggins first registered with FINRA as a General Securities Representative (GS) in
September 2004. Between September 2004 and February 2016, Duggins was registered
with FINRA as a GS through nine different member firms. From February 2016 to the
present, Duggins has been registered with FINRA as a GS through Spartan Capital
Securities, LLC (CRD No. 146251).
In November 2014, Duggins entered into an AWC with FINRA for exercising discretion
in two customer accounts without written authorization and for making related false
statements on a firm compliance questionnaire in violation of NASD Conduct Rule
2510(b) and FINRA Rule 2010. FINRA suspended Duggins for one month in all
capacities and fined him $7,500.
In June 2017, a FINRA arbitration panel entered a judgment against Duggins for $26,127
in connection with a customer arbitration alleging unsuitable recommendations and the
improper use of margin. FINRA subsequently suspended Duggins for approximately one
month for failing to comply with the arbitration award pursuant to Article VI, Section 3
of FINRA By-Laws and FINRA Rule 9554. 1

1

For more information about the respondent, including prior regulatory events, visit BrokerCheck® at
www.finra.org/brokercheck.

OVERVIEW
From December 2016 through April 2022, Duggins recommended a series of excessive
trades to eight customers, three of whom were seniors. By this conduct, Duggins willfully
violated the Best Interest Obligation under Rule 15l-1 of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 (Regulation BI) (for the period June 30, 2020, through April 2022) and violated
FINRA Rule 2111 (for the period December 2016 through June 29, 2020) and FINRA
Rule 2010. In addition, Duggins willfully failed to report a written customer complaint
alleging a sales practice violation on his Uniform Application for Securities Industry
Registration or Transfer (Form U4) in violation of Article V, Section 2 of FINRA’s ByLaws and FINRA Rules 1122 and 2010.
FACTS AND VIOLATIVE CONDUCT
This matter originated from FINRA’s cycle exam of Spartan.
Duggins excessively traded eight customer accounts.
As of June 30, 2020, broker-dealers and their associated persons are required to comply
with Regulation BI under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Regulation BI’s Best
Interest Obligation requires a broker, dealer, or a natural person associated with a broker
or dealer, when making a recommendation of any securities transaction or investment
strategy involving securities (including account recommendations) to a retail customer, to
act in the best interest of that retail customer at the time the recommendation is made,
without placing the financial or other interest of the broker, dealer, or associated person
ahead of the interest of the retail customer. Regulation BI’s Care Obligation, set forth at
Exchange Act Rule 15l-1(a)(2)(ii), requires broker-dealers and their associated persons to
exercise reasonable diligence, care, and skill to, among other things, have a reasonable
basis to believe that a series of recommended transactions, even if in the retail customer’s
best interest when viewed in isolation, is not excessive and is in the retail customer’s best
interest in light of the retail customer’s investment profile. A violation of Regulation BI
also is a violation of FINRA Rule 2010, which requires associated persons to “observe
high standards of commercial honor and just and equitable principles of trade” in the
conduct of their business.
Prior to June 30, 2020, FINRA Rule 2111 required members and associated persons to
have a reasonable basis to believe that a recommendation of a transaction or investment
strategy involving a security or securities to any customer is suitable for the customer.
FINRA Rule 2111 is still in effect, but as of June 30, 2020, it no longer applies to
recommendations to retail customers that are subject to Regulation BI. Under Rule
2111.05(c), members and associated persons with actual or de facto control over an
account were required to have a reasonable basis for believing that a series of
recommended transactions, even if suitable when viewed in isolation, are not excessive
and unsuitable for the customer in light of the customer's investment profile. A violation
of FINRA Rule 2111 is also a violation of FINRA Rule 2010.

2

No single test defines when trading is excessive, but factors such as the cost-to-equity
ratio and turnover rate are relevant to determining whether an associated person has
excessively traded a customer’s account. The cost-to-equity ratio measures the amount an
account has to appreciate just to cover commissions and other expenses. In other words, it
is the break-even point where a customer may begin to see a return. The turnover rate
represents the number of times that a portfolio of securities is exchanged for another
portfolio of securities. An annualized cost-to-equity ratio above 20 percent or an
annualized turnover rate of six or more generally indicates that a series of recommended
transactions was excessive.
From December 2016 through April 2022, Duggins engaged in quantitatively unsuitable
trading in the accounts of eight customers. His customers relied on his advice and
routinely followed his recommendations and, as a result, Duggins exercised de facto
control over the customers’ accounts. Duggins’ trading resulted in high cost-to-equity
ratios and turnover rates that were well above the traditional guideposts of 20 percent and
six, respectively, as well as significant losses, as set forth below. Specifically, Duggins’
trading in the eight customer accounts resulted in annualized cost-to-equity ratios of 58
percent to 289 percent and annualized turnover rates of 14.36 to 63.24 while generating
total trading costs of $444,176, including $343,416 in commissions, and causing
$235,494 in total realized losses. For example:


Customer A opened an account at Spartan with Duggins in January 2019. At the
time, Customer A was a 76-year-old retiree. According to Customer A’s new
account documentation, his investment objective was growth. From January 2019
through March 2022, Duggins recommended 120 transactions in Customer A’s
account resulting in an annualized cost-to-equity ratio of 93 percent and an
annualized turnover rate of 20.55. Duggins’ trading in Customer A’s account
generated total trading costs of $32,331, including $23,395 in commissions, and
caused $19,575 in realized losses.



Customer B opened an individual retirement account (IRA) at Spartan with
Duggins in October 2018. At the time, Customer B was a 68-year-old retiree.
According to Customer B’s new account documentation, his investment objective
was aggressive growth. From October 2018 through October 2021, Duggins
recommended 305 transactions in Customer B’s IRA resulting in an annualized
cost-to-equity ratio of 59 percent and an annualized turnover rate of 14.82.
Duggins’ trading in Customer B’s IRA generated total trading costs of $123,953,
including $101,024 in commissions, and caused $92,995 in realized losses.



Customer C opened an account at Spartan with Duggins in September 2018. At
that time, Customer C was 42 years old and self-employed in the real estate
business. According to Customer C’s new account documentation, his investment
objective was speculation. From September 2018 through November 2021,
Duggins recommended 151 transactions in Customer C’s account resulting in an
annualized cost-to-equity ratio of 101 percent and an annualized turnover rate of
24.88. Duggins’ trading in Customer C’s account generated total trading costs of
3

$71,213, including $55,195 in commissions, and caused $17,829 in realized
losses.
Duggins’ trading in the eight customer accounts was excessive, unsuitable, and not in the
best interest of these customers given their investment profiles.
Therefore, Duggins willfully violated Exchange Act Rule 15l-1 (for the period June 30,
2020, through April 2022) and violated FINRA Rule 2111 (for the period December 2016
through June 29, 2020) and FINRA Rule 2010.
Duggins willfully failed to disclose a customer complaint on his Form U4.
To become registered with FINRA through a member firm, an associated person is
required to complete, and the member firm must file with FINRA, a Form U4. Article V,
Section 2(c) of FINRA’s By-Laws requires associated persons applying for registration
with FINRA to keep the Form U4 application “current at all times,” and to file any
necessary amendments to the Form U4 “not later than 30 days after learning of the facts
or circumstances giving rise to the amendment.” FINRA Rule 1122 provides that “[n]o
member or person associated with a member shall file with FINRA information which is
incomplete or inaccurate so as to be misleading, or which could in any way tend to
mislead, or fail to correct such filing after notice thereof.” Accurate Forms U4 are critical
to FINRA’s function in screening and monitoring registered representatives. Truthful and
complete answers to Form U4 questions are critical because these responses may serve as
an early warning mechanism and may identify individuals with troubled pasts or suspect
financial histories.
An associated person who fails to amend or timely amend his Form U4 to disclose
required information violates Article V, Section 2(c) of FINRA’s By-Laws and FINRA
Rule 1122. Violations of Article V, Section 2(c) of FINRA’s By-Laws or FINRA Rule
1122 also constitute a violation of FINRA Rule 2010.
At all times relevant to this AWC, Question 14I(3)(a) of the Form U4 required registered
persons to disclose investment-related written customer complaints alleging their
involvement in a sales practice violation and that contain a claim for compensatory
damages of $5,000 or more.
In October 2021, Customer C sent Duggins an email complaining that Duggins
excessively traded Customer C’s account and seeking $17,500 in compensatory damages.
Duggins received and read the email but did not forward the customer complaint to
Spartan’s compliance department as required by the firm’s policies. Duggins never
amended his Form U4 to disclose Customer C’s written customer complaint.
Therefore, Duggins willfully failed to disclose a material fact on his Form U4 in violation
of Article V, Section 2(c) of FINRA’s By-Laws and FINRA Rules 1122 and 2010.

4

B.

Respondent also consents to the imposition of the following sanctions:


an eighteen-month suspension from associating with any FINRA member in all
capacities.

Respondent has submitted a statement of financial condition and demonstrated an
inability to pay. In light of Respondent’s financial status, no monetary sanctions have
been imposed.
Respondent understands that if he is barred or suspended from associating with any
FINRA member, he becomes subject to a statutory disqualification as that term is defined
in Article III, Section 4 of FINRA’s By-Laws, incorporating Section 3(a)(39) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Accordingly, he may not be associated with any
FINRA member in any capacity, including clerical or ministerial functions, during the
period of the bar or suspension. See FINRA Rules 8310 and 8311.
Respondent understands that this settlement includes a finding that he willfully violated
Rule 15l-1 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and that under Article III, Section 4 of
FINRA’s By-Laws, this makes him subject to a statutory disqualification with respect to
association with a member.
Respondent understands that this settlement includes a finding that he willfully omitted to
state a material fact on a Form U4, and that under Section 3(a)(39)(F) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934 and Article III, Section 4 of FINRA’s By-Laws, this omission
makes him subject to a statutory disqualification with respect to association with a
member.
The sanctions imposed in this AWC shall be effective on a date set by FINRA.
II.
WAIVER OF PROCEDURAL RIGHTS
Respondent specifically and voluntarily waives the following rights granted under FINRA’s
Code of Procedure:
A.

To have a complaint issued specifying the allegations against him;

B.

To be notified of the complaint and have the opportunity to answer the allegations
in writing;

C.

To defend against the allegations in a disciplinary hearing before a hearing panel,
to have a written record of the hearing made, and to have a written decision
issued; and

5

D.

To appeal any such decision to the National Adjudicatory Council (NAC) and
then to the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission and a U.S. Court of
Appeals.

Further, Respondent specifically and voluntarily waives any right to claim bias or prejudgment
of the Chief Legal Officer, the NAC, or any member of the NAC, in connection with such
person’s or body’s participation in discussions regarding the terms and conditions of this AWC,
or other consideration of this AWC, including its acceptance or rejection.
Respondent further specifically and voluntarily waives any right to claim that a person violated
the ex parte prohibitions of FINRA Rule 9143 or the separation of functions prohibitions of
FINRA Rule 9144, in connection with such person’s or body’s participation in discussions
regarding the terms and conditions of this AWC, or other consideration of this AWC, including
its acceptance or rejection.
III.
OTHER MATTERS
Respondent understands that:
A.

Submission of this AWC is voluntary and will not resolve this matter unless and
until it has been reviewed and accepted by the NAC, a Review Subcommittee of
the NAC, or the Office of Disciplinary Affairs (ODA), pursuant to FINRA Rule
9216;

B.

If this AWC is not accepted, its submission will not be used as evidence to prove
any of the allegations against Respondent; and

C.

If accepted:
1.

this AWC will become part of Respondent’s permanent disciplinary
record and may be considered in any future action brought by FINRA or
any other regulator against Respondent;

2.

this AWC will be made available through FINRA’s public disclosure
program in accordance with FINRA Rule 8313;

3.

FINRA may make a public announcement concerning this agreement and
its subject matter in accordance with FINRA Rule 8313; and

4.

Respondent may not take any action or make or permit to be made any
public statement, including in regulatory filings or otherwise, denying,
directly or indirectly, any finding in this AWC or create the impression
that the AWC is without factual basis. Respondent may not take any
position in any proceeding brought by or on behalf of FINRA, or to which
FINRA is a party, that is inconsistent with any part of this AWC. Nothing
6

in this provision affects Respondent’s right to take legal or factual
positions in litigation or other legal proceedings in which FINRA is not a
party.
in this
provision
affects right
Respondent’s
testimonial
in thisNothing
provi ion
affects
Re pondent's
to take legal
or factual
obligations
any litigation
or other
legal proceedings.
position ininlitigation
or other
legal proceeding
in which FINRA is not a
D.
D.

party. Nothing in this provision affects Re pondent 's testimonial
obligation
in any
litigation action
or otherstatement
legal proceedings.
Respondent
may attach
a corrective
to this AWC that is a

statement of demonstrable corrective steps taken to prevent future misconduct.
Respondentunderstands
may attach that
a corrective
to thisorAmake
WC that
Respondent
he may action
not denytatement
the charges
anyistatement
statement
of
demonstrabl
e
corrective
steps
tak
en
to
prevent
future
misconduct.
that is inconsistent with the AWC in this statement. This statement does not
Re pondcnt
understand
that he may
not deny nor
the does
charge
or make
tatement
constitute
factual
or legal findings
by FINRA,
it reflect
theany
views
of
i
inconsi
tent
with
the
AW in this statement Thi statement doe not
that
FINRA.
constitute factua l or legal findings by FINRA , nor does it reflect the views of
FINRA.

Respondent certifies that he has read and understands all of the provisions of this AWC and has
been
given a full
opportunity
questions
about it; all
Respondent
has agreed
to the
AWC’s
Respondent
ce1tifies
that he to
hasask
read
and understands
of the provisions
of this
A WC
and has
provisions
voluntarily;
and no offer,
inducement,
or promise has
of any
kind,toother
been given
a full opportunity
to askthreat,
que tions
about it· Respondent
agreed
the Athan
WC ' the
terms
set forth
in this AWC
the prospect
of avoiding or
thepromise
issuanceofofany
a complaint,
provisions
voluntarily;
and and
no offer,
threat, inducement,
kind , otherhas
thanbeen
the
terms
fmthhim
in this
WC and
prospect of avoiding the issuance ofa complaint, bas been
made
to set
induce
to submit
thisthe
AWC.
made to induce him to ubmit thi

D!l~fal/

Date

WC .

ttfifi![:[r

Tory A. Duggins
Respondent
Res

Reviewed
by:
Reviewed
by:
===--:::=,,_
__________________________
Liam
O’Brien,
Esq.
Liam
O'Brien,
Esq.
Counsel
for
Respondent
ounsel for Respondent
McCormick
McConnick&&O’Brien,
O'Brien,LLP
LLP
th th
125
Park
A venue,2525
Floor
125
Park
Avenue,
Floor
New
York,NY
NY10017
10017
New
York,

7

7

nt

Accepted by FINRA:
Signed on behalf of the
Director of ODA, by delegated authority

01/19/2024
Date

Jeffrey E. Baldwin
Senior Counsel
FINRA
Department of Enforcement
1601 Market Street
Suite 2700
Philadelphia, PA 19103

8

