FINANCIAL INDUSTRY REGULATORY AUTHORITY
LETTER OF ACCEPTANCE, WAIVER, AND CONSENT
NO. 2018056490321
TO:

Department of Enforcement
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA)

RE:

Christopher P. Gallo (Respondent)
General Securities Representative
CRD No. 6045888

Pursuant to FINRA Rule 9216, Respondent Christopher P. Gallo submits this Letter of
Acceptance, Waiver, and Consent (AWC) for the purpose of proposing a settlement of the
alleged rule violations described below. This AWC is submitted on the condition that, if
accepted, FINRA will not bring any future actions against Respondent alleging violations based
on the same factual findings described in this AWC.
I.
ACCEPTANCE AND CONSENT
A.

Respondent accepts and consents to the following findings by FINRA without admitting
or denying them:
BACKGROUND
Gallo first entered the securities industry in 2012. Between July 2018 and July 2023, he
was registered with FINRA as a General Securities Representative through an association
with Spartan Capital Securities, LLC (CRD No. 146251). Since May 2023, Gallo has
been registered with FINRA as a General Securities Representative through an
association with another member firm.1
OVERVIEW
Between June 30, 2020, and November 2021, Gallo recommended to two retail
customers a series of trades that were excessive and not in the customers’ best interests.
As a result, Gallo willfully violated the Best Interest Obligation under Rule 15l-1(a)(1) of
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (Regulation BI or Reg BI) and violated FINRA Rule
2010.
FACTS AND VIOLATIVE CONDUCT
This matter originated from a FINRA cycle examination of Spartan Capital.

1

For more information about the respondent, visit BrokerCheck® at www.finra.org/brokercheck.

As of June 30, 2020, broker-dealers and their associated persons are required to comply
with Regulation BI under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Rule 15l-1(a)(1) of Reg
BI requires a broker, dealer, or a natural person associated with a broker or dealer, when
making a recommendation of any securities transaction or investment strategy involving
securities (including account recommendations) to a retail customer, to act in the best
interest of that retail customer at the time the recommendation is made, without placing
the financial or other interest of the broker, dealer, or associated person ahead of the
interest of the retail customer. Reg BI’s Care Obligation, set forth at Exchange Act Rule
15l-1(a)(2)(ii), requires broker-dealers and their associated persons to exercise reasonable
diligence, care, and skill to, among other things, have a reasonable basis to believe that a
series of recommended transactions, even if in the retail customer’s best interest when
viewed in isolation, is not excessive and is in the retail customer’s best interest in light of
the retail customer’s investment profile.
No single test defines when trading is excessive, but factors such as the turnover rate, the
cost-to-equity ratio, and the use of in-and-out trading in a customer’s account are relevant
to determining whether an associated person has excessively traded a customer’s account
in violation of Reg BI. The turnover rate represents the number of times that a portfolio
of securities is exchanged for another portfolio of securities. The cost-to-equity ratio
measures the amount an account must appreciate just to cover commissions and other
expenses. In other words, it is the break-even point where a customer may begin to see a
return. A turnover rate of six or more, or a cost-to-equity ratio above 20 percent,
generally indicates that a series of recommended transactions was excessive.
A violation of Reg BI also is a violation of FINRA Rule 2010, which requires associated
persons to “observe high standards of commercial honor and just and equitable principles
of trade” in the conduct of their business.
Between June 30, 2020 and November 2021, Gallo excessively traded the accounts of
two retail customers, one of whom was a senior. Gallo’s trading resulted in high turnover
rates and cost-to-equity ratios that were well above the traditional guideposts of six and
20 percent, respectively, as well as significant losses, as set forth below.


In September 2020, Customer A, then a 54-year-old retiree, opened an account at
Spartan with Gallo and another registered representative. His investment objective
was speculation. Between September 2020 and November 2021, Gallo
recommended 45 transactions in Customer A’s account resulting in an annualized
turnover rate of 14 and an annualized cost-to-equity ratio of 64%. Gallo’s trading
in Customer A’s account generated $28,428 in commissions and caused $95,393
in realized losses.



In April 2019, Customer B, then 73 years old, opened an account at Spartan with
Gallo. His investment objective was speculation. Between June 30, 2020 and
November 2021, Gallo recommended 120 transactions in Customer B’s account
resulting in an annualized turnover rate of 16 and an annualized cost-to-equity

2

ratio of 80%. Gallo’s trading in Customer B’s account generated $69,553 in
commissions and caused $109,099 in realized losses.
The level of trading that Gallo recommended in the two customers’ accounts was
excessive and not in the best interest of the customers.
Therefore, Gallo willfully violated Exchange Act Rule 15l-1(a)(1) and violated FINRA
Rule 2010.
B.

Respondent also consents to the imposition of the following sanctions:


a five-month suspension from associating with any FINRA member in all
capacities.

Respondent has submitted a statement of financial condition and demonstrated an
inability to pay. In light of Respondent’s financial status, no monetary sanctions have
been imposed.
Respondent understands that if he is barred or suspended from associating with any
FINRA member, he becomes subject to a statutory disqualification as that term is defined
in Article III, Section 4 of FINRA’s By-Laws, incorporating Section 3(a)(39) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Accordingly, he may not be associated with any
FINRA member in any capacity, including clerical or ministerial functions, during the
period of the bar or suspension. See FINRA Rules 8310 and 8311.
Respondent understands that this settlement includes a finding that he willfully violated
Rule 15l-1 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and that under Article III, Section 4 of
FINRA’s By-Laws, this makes him subject to a statutory disqualification with respect to
association with a member.
The sanctions imposed in this AWC shall be effective on a date set by FINRA.
II.
WAIVER OF PROCEDURAL RIGHTS
Respondent specifically and voluntarily waives the following rights granted under FINRA’s
Code of Procedure:
A.

To have a complaint issued specifying the allegations against him;

B.

To be notified of the complaint and have the opportunity to answer the allegations
in writing;

C.

To defend against the allegations in a disciplinary hearing before a hearing panel,
to have a written record of the hearing made, and to have a written decision
issued; and
3

D.

To appeal any such decision to the National Adjudicatory Council (NAC) and
then to the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission and a U.S. Court of
Appeals.

Further, Respondent specifically and voluntarily waives any right to claim bias or prejudgment
of the Chief Legal Officer, the NAC, or any member of the NAC, in connection with such
person’s or body’s participation in discussions regarding the terms and conditions of this AWC,
or other consideration of this AWC, including its acceptance or rejection.
Respondent further specifically and voluntarily waives any right to claim that a person violated
the ex parte prohibitions of FINRA Rule 9143 or the separation of functions prohibitions of
FINRA Rule 9144, in connection with such person’s or body’s participation in discussions
regarding the terms and conditions of this AWC, or other consideration of this AWC, including
its acceptance or rejection.
III.
OTHER MATTERS
Respondent understands that:
A.

Submission of this AWC is voluntary and will not resolve this matter unless and
until it has been reviewed and accepted by the NAC, a Review Subcommittee of
the NAC, or the Office of Disciplinary Affairs (ODA), pursuant to FINRA Rule
9216;

B.

If this AWC is not accepted, its submission will not be used as evidence to prove
any of the allegations against Respondent; and

C.

If accepted:
1.

this AWC will become part of Respondent’s permanent disciplinary
record and may be considered in any future action brought by FINRA or
any other regulator against Respondent;

2.

this AWC will be made available through FINRA’s public disclosure
program in accordance with FINRA Rule 8313;

3.

FINRA may make a public announcement concerning this agreement and
its subject matter in accordance with FINRA Rule 8313; and

4.

Respondent may not take any action or make or permit to be made any
public statement, including in regulatory filings or otherwise, denying,
directly or indirectly, any finding in this AWC or create the impression
that the AWC is without factual basis. Respondent may not take any
position in any proceeding brought by or on behalf of FINRA, or to which
4

FINRA 1s a party, that 1s inconsistent with any part oftlus A\\IC 'Jothmg
Ill this provision affects Resµ oudeut's rig.ht to t.ike legal or factual
positions in litigation or other legal proceedings in which FINRA 1s Ul1 1 a
party. Nothing in this provision affects Respondent's test1monial
0blignt10ns in any litigation or other legaJ proceedings
D

Respoudellt may attach a corrective action statement to this A \l.'C that 1s a
statement of demonstrable corrective steps taken to prevent future m1sconducr
Respondent understnnds that he may not deny rhe charp.cs or make ari:>, ~tatcmcnt
that is inconsistent with the A WC in this statement. This statement docs not
constitute factual or legal findings by FTNRA. nor does 1t reflect the rn:ws of
FlNRA.

Resplmdent certifies that he has re-ad and understands all of the provisions of tlm A WC .iml ha~
been given a full opportunity to ask questions about it; Respondent has agreed to the A WC's
prov1s1ons voluntarily; and no offer, threat. inducement or promise of
ind, oth1;r than tht.:
terms set forth in this A W C and the prospect of a · mg c issua.u · llf a orupl.unr. h:is been
made to mduce him to submit this A WC.

Reviewed by

,-

Michael Utilla, Esq
Ct,uusel for Respondent
The Law Office of Michael Utilla
:2'.!25 Eas e 74th Street
Brol)klyn. New York I 1~34

5

Accepted by FINRA:
Signed on behalf of the
Director of ODA, by delegated authority

~g~p

November 27, 2024
Date

Alyssa Braver
Counsel
FINRA
Department of Enforcement
Brookfield Place
200 Liberty Street
New York, NY 10281

6

