FINANCIAL INDUSTRY REGULATORY AUTHORITY
LETTER OF ACCEPTANCE, WAIVER, AND CONSENT
NO. 2018056490319
TO:

Department of Enforcement
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA)

RE:

Jesse D. Krapf (Respondent)
General Securities Representative
CRD No. 5467277

Pursuant to FINRA Rule 9216, Respondent Jesse D. Krapf submits this Letter of Acceptance,
Waiver, and Consent (AWC) for the purpose of proposing a settlement of the alleged rule
violations described below. This AWC is submitted on the condition that, if accepted, FINRA
will not bring any future actions against Respondent alleging violations based on the same
factual findings described in this AWC.
I.
ACCEPTANCE AND CONSENT
A.

Respondent accepts and consents to the following findings by FINRA without admitting
or denying them:
BACKGROUND
Krapf first registered with FINRA in January 2008. Since October 2019, Krapf has been
registered with FINRA as a General Securities Representative and Investment Banking
Representative through an association with Spartan Capital Securities, LLC (CRD No.
146251).1
OVERVIEW
Between October 2019 and April 2022, Krapf recommended a series of trades in a senior
customer’s account that were excessive, unsuitable, and not in the customer’s best
interest. As a result, Krapf willfully violated the Best Interest Obligation under Rule 15l1 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (Regulation BI) and violated FINRA Rules
2111 and 2010.
FACTS AND VIOLATIVE CONDUCT
This matter originated from a FINRA cycle examination of Spartan Capital.
As of June 30, 2020, broker-dealers and their associated persons are required to comply
with Regulation BI under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Rule 15l-1(a)(1) of Reg
BI requires a broker, dealer, or a natural person associated with a broker or dealer, when

1

For more information about the respondent, visit BrokerCheck® at www.finra.org/brokercheck.

making a recommendation of any securities transaction or investment strategy involving
securities (including account recommendations) to a retail customer, to act in the best
interest of that retail customer at the time the recommendation is made, without placing
the financial or other interest of the broker, dealer, or associated person ahead of the
interest of the retail customer. Reg BI’s Care Obligation, set forth at Exchange Act Rule
15l-1(a)(2)(ii), requires broker-dealers and their associated persons to exercise reasonable
diligence, care, and skill to, among other things, have a reasonable basis to believe that a
series of recommended transactions, even if in the retail customer’s best interest when
viewed in isolation, is not excessive and is in the retail customer’s best interest in light of
the retail customer’s investment profile.
No single test defines when trading is excessive, but factors such as the turnover rate, the
cost-to-equity ratio, and the use of in-and-out trading in a customer’s account are relevant
to determining whether an associated person has excessively traded a customer’s account
in violation of Reg BI. The turnover rate represents the number of times that a portfolio
of securities is exchanged for another portfolio of securities. The cost-to-equity ratio
measures the amount an account must appreciate just to cover commissions and other
expenses. In other words, it is the break-even point where a customer may begin to see a
return. A turnover rate of six or more, or a cost-to-equity ratio above 20 percent,
generally indicates that a series of recommended transactions was excessive.
Prior to June 30, 2020, FINRA Rule 2111 required members and associated persons to
have a reasonable basis to believe that a recommendation of a transaction or investment
strategy involving a security or securities to any customer is suitable for the customer.
Under Rule 2111.05(c), members and associated persons with actual or de facto control
over an account were required to have a reasonable basis for believing that a series of
recommended transactions, even if suitable when viewed in isolation, is not excessive
and unsuitable for the customer in light of the customer's investment profile. FINRA Rule
2111 is still in effect, but as of June 30, 2020, it no longer applies to recommendations
that are subject to Reg BI, and the element of control was removed from the quantitative
suitability component.
A violation of Reg BI or FINRA Rule 2111 also is a violation of FINRA Rule 2010,
which requires associated persons to “observe high standards of commercial honor and
just and equitable principles of trade” in the conduct of their business.
Between October 2019 and April 2022, Krapf excessively and unsuitably traded the
account of one customer, a senior who was a business owner. The customer relied on
Krapf’s advice and routinely followed his recommendations. As a result, Krapf exercised
de facto control over the account. Krapf recommended in-and-out trading to the
customer, even when the price of his recommended securities did not materially change.
For example, in April 2020, Krapf recommended that the customer purchase nearly
$180,000 of stock in a biotechnology company, and then recommended that the customer
sell the position two days later. Krapf charged commissions on the round-trip transaction
of $7,800. The next day, Krapf recommended that the customer purchase nearly $82,000

2

in a semiconductor company and, that same day, sell the position for a loss, while
charging the customer commissions of $2,000.
Between October 2019 and April 2022, Krapf recommended 58 transactions in the
customer’s account, resulting in an annualized turnover rate of 23 and an annualized costto-equity ratio of 104 percent. Krapf’s trading in the customer’s account generated total
trading costs of $96,496, including $92,847 in commissions, and caused $41,017 in total
realized losses.
Krapf’s trading in the customer’s account was excessive, unsuitable, and not in the best
interest of the customer. Therefore, Krapf willfully violated Exchange Act Rule 15l1(a)(1) and violated FINRA Rules 2111 and 2010.
B.

Respondent also consents to the imposition of the following sanction:


a five-month suspension from associating with any FINRA member in all
capacities.

Respondent has submitted a statement of financial condition and demonstrated an
inability to pay. In light of Respondent’s financial status, no monetary sanctions have
been imposed.
Respondent understands that if he is barred or suspended from associating with any
FINRA member, he becomes subject to a statutory disqualification as that term is defined
in Article III, Section 4 of FINRA’s By-Laws, incorporating Section 3(a)(39) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Accordingly, he may not be associated with any
FINRA member in any capacity, including clerical or ministerial functions, during the
period of the bar or suspension. See FINRA Rules 8310 and 8311.
Respondent understands that this settlement includes a finding that he willfully violated
Rule 15l-1 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and that under Article III, Section 4 of
FINRA’s By-Laws, this makes him subject to a statutory disqualification with respect to
association with a member.
The sanctions imposed in this AWC shall be effective on a date set by FINRA.
II.
WAIVER OF PROCEDURAL RIGHTS
Respondent specifically and voluntarily waives the following rights granted under FINRA’s
Code of Procedure:
A.

To have a complaint issued specifying the allegations against him;

B.

To be notified of the complaint and have the opportunity to answer the allegations
in writing;

3

C.

To defend against the allegations in a disciplinary hearing before a hearing panel,
to have a written record of the hearing made, and to have a written decision
issued; and

D.

To appeal any such decision to the National Adjudicatory Council (NAC) and
then to the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission and a U.S. Court of
Appeals.

Further, Respondent specifically and voluntarily waives any right to claim bias or prejudgment
of the Chief Legal Officer, the NAC, or any member of the NAC, in connection with such
person’s or body’s participation in discussions regarding the terms and conditions of this AWC,
or other consideration of this AWC, including its acceptance or rejection.
Respondent further specifically and voluntarily waives any right to claim that a person violated
the ex parte prohibitions of FINRA Rule 9143 or the separation of functions prohibitions of
FINRA Rule 9144, in connection with such person’s or body’s participation in discussions
regarding the terms and conditions of this AWC, or other consideration of this AWC, including
its acceptance or rejection.
III.
OTHER MATTERS
Respondent understands that:
A.

Submission of this AWC is voluntary and will not resolve this matter unless and
until it has been reviewed and accepted by the NAC, a Review Subcommittee of
the NAC, or the Office of Disciplinary Affairs (ODA), pursuant to FINRA Rule
9216;

B.

If this AWC is not accepted, its submission will not be used as evidence to prove
any of the allegations against Respondent; and

C.

If accepted:
1.

this AWC will become part of Respondent’s permanent disciplinary
record and may be considered in any future action brought by FINRA or
any other regulator against Respondent;

2.

this AWC will be made available through FINRA’s public disclosure
program in accordance with FINRA Rule 8313;

3.

FINRA may make a public announcement concerning this agreement and
its subject matter in accordance with FINRA Rule 8313; and

4.

Respondent may not take any action or make or permit to be made any
public statement, including in regulatory filings or otherwise, denying,
directly or indirectly, any finding in this AWC or create the impression

4

that the AWC is without factual basis. Respondent may not take any
position in any proceeding brought by or on behalf of FINRA, or to which
FINRA is a party, that is inconsistent with any part of this AWC. Nothing
in this provision affects Respondent’s right to take legal or factual
positions in litigation or other legal proceedings in which FINRA is not a
party. Nothing in this provision affects Respondent’s testimonial
obligations in any litigation or other legal proceedings.
D.

Respondent may attach a corrective action statement to this AWC that is a
statement of demonstrable corrective steps taken to prevent future misconduct.
Respondent understands that he may not deny the charges or make any statement
that is inconsistent with the AWC in this statement. This statement does not
constitute factual or legal findings by FINRA, nor does it reflect the views of
FINRA.

Respondent certifies that he has read and understands all of the provisions of this AWC and has
been given a full opportunity to ask questions about it; Respondent has agreed to the AWC’s
provisions voluntarily; and no offer, threat, inducement, or promise of any kind, other than the
terms set forth in this AWC and the prospect of avoiding the issuance of a complaint, has been
made to induce him to submit this AWC.

10/24/2024

Date

Jesse D. Krapf
Respondent

Reviewed by:
__________________________
Liam O’Brien, Esq.
Counsel for Respondent
McCormick & O’Brien, LLP
125 Park Avenue, 25th Floor
New York, NY 10017

5

Accepted by FINRA:
Signed on behalf of the
Director of ODA, by delegated authority

10/30/2024
Date

Jeffrey E. Baldwin
Senior Counsel
FINRA
Department of Enforcement
1601 Market St., Suite 2700
Philadelphia, PA 19103

6

