FINANCIAL INDUSTRY REGULATORY AUTHORITY
LETTER OF ACCEPTANCE, WAIVER, AND CONSENT

NO.2018056490323
TO:

Department of Enforcement
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA)

RE:

Justin R. Deiter (Respondent)
Former General Securities Representative
CRD No. 5225102

Pursuant to FINRA Rule 9216, Respondent Justin R. Deiter submits this Letter of Acceptance,
Waiver, and Consent (AWC) for the purpose of proposing a settlement of the alleged rule
violations described below. This AWC is submitted on the condition that, if accepted, FINRA
will not bring any future actions against Respondent alleging violations based on the same
factual findings described in this AWC.

I.
ACCEPTANCE AND CONSENT
A.

Respondent accepts and consents to the following findings by FINRA without admitting
or denying them:

BACKGROUND
Deiter first registered with FINRA in May 2007. Between January 2020 and September
2023, Deiter was registered with FINRA as a General Securities Representative through
an association with Spartan Capital Securities, LLC (CRD No. 146251 ). Although Deiter
is no longer registered or associated with a FINRA member firm, he remains subject to
FINRA's jurisdiction pursuant to Article V, Section 4 ofFINRA's By-Laws. 1

OVERVIEW
Between February 2020 and March 2022, Deiter recommended to two retail customers a
series of trades that were excessive. As a result, Deiter willfully violated the Best Interest
Obligation under Rule 15/-l(a)(l) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (Regulation BI
or Reg BI) and violated FINRA Rules 2111 and 2010. For these violations, Deiter is
suspended for six months in all capacities.

FACTS AND VIOLATIVE CONDUCT
This matter originated from a FINRA cycle examination of Spartan Capital.

1

For more information about the respondent, visit BrokerCheck® at www.finra.org/brokercheck.

As of June 30, 2020, broker-dealers and their associated persons are required to comply
with Regulation Bl under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Rule 15/-l(a)(l) of Reg
BI requires a broker, dealer, or a natural person associated with a broker or dealer, when
making a recommendation of any securities transaction or investment strategy involving
securities (including account recommendations) to a retail customer, to act in the best
interest of that retail customer at the time the recommendation is made, without placing
the financial or other interest of the broker, dealer, or associated person ahead of the
interest of the retail customer. Reg BI's Care Obligation, set forth at Exchange Act Rule
15/-l(a)(2)(ii), requires broker-dealers and their associated persons to exercise reasonable
diligence, care, and skill to, among other things, have a reasonable basis to believe that a
series of recommended transactions, even if in the retail customer's best interest when
viewed in isolation, is not excessive and is in the retail customer's best interest in light of
the retail customer's investment profile.
No single test defines when trading is excessive, but factors such as the turnover rate, the
cost-to-equity ratio, and the use of in-and-out trading in a customer's account are relevant
to determining whether an associated person has excessively traded a customer's account
in violation of Reg BL The turnover rate represents the number of times that a portfolio
of securities is exchanged for another portfolio of securities. The cost-to-equity ratio
measures the amount an account must appreciate just to cover commissions and other
expenses. In other words, it is the break-even point where a customer may begin to see a
return. A turnover rate of six or more, or a cost-to-equity ratio above 20 percent,
generally indicates that a series of recommended transactions was excessive.
Prior to June 30, 2020, FINRA Rule 2111 required members and associated persons to
have a reasonable basis to believe that a recommendation of a transaction or investment
strategy involving a security or securities to any customer is suitable for the customer.
Under Rule 2111.0S(c), members and associated persons with actual or de facto control
over an account were required to have a reasonable basis for believing that a series of
recommended transactions, even if suitable when viewed in isolation, is not excessive
and unsuitable for the customer in light of the customer's investment profile. FINRA Rule
2111 is still in effect, but as of June 30, 2020, it no longer applies to recommendations

that are subject to Reg BI, and the element of control was removed from the quantitative
suitability component.
A violation of Reg BI or FINRA Rule 2111 also is a violation ofFINRA Rule 2010,
which requires associated persons to "observe high standards of commercial honor and
just and equitable principles of trade" in the conduct of their business.
Between February 2020 and March 2022, Deiter excessively traded the accounts of two
retail customers, one of whom was a senior. Deiter' s trading resulted in high turnover
rates and cost-to-equity ratios that exceeded the traditional guideposts of six and 20
percent, respectively, as well as significant losses, as set forth below.
•

In February 2020, Customer A, then a 49-year-old merchandiser, opened an
account at Spartan with Deiter. She was a conservative investor who relied on
2

Deiter' s advice and always followed his recommendations. As a result, Deiter
exercised de facto control over the account. Between February 2020 and
December 2021, Deiter recommended 32 transactions in Customer A's account
resulting in an annualized turnover rate of 7 and an annualized cost-to-equity ratio
of 34%. Deiter' s trading in Customer A's account generated $19,792 in
commissions and caused $25,291 in realized losses.
•

In February 2020, Customer B, then an 89-year-old retiree, opened an account at
Spartan with Deiter. His investment objective was speculation. Between June 30,
2020, and March 2022, Deiter recommended 28 transactions in Customer B's
account resulting in an annualized turnover rate of 14 and an annualized cost-toequity ratio of 35%. Deiter's trading in Customer B's account generated $28,264
in commissions and caused $33,363 in realized losses.

The level of trading that Deiter recommended in the two customers' accounts was
excessive and not in the best interest of the customers.
Based on the foregoing, Deiter willfully violated Exchange Act Rule 15/-l(a)(l) and
violated FINRA Rules 2111 and 2010.

B.

Respondent also consents to the imposition of the following sanctions:
•

a six-month suspension from associating with any FINRA member in all
capacities.

Respondent has submitted a statement of financial condition and demonstrated an
inability to pay. In light of Respondent's financial status, no monetary sanctions have
been imposed.
Respondent understands that if he is barred or suspended from associating with any
FINRA member, he becomes subject to a statutory disqualification as that term is defmed
in Article III, Section 4 ofFINRA's By-Laws, incorporating Section 3(a)(39) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Accordingly, he may not be associated with any
FINRA member in any capacity, including clerical or ministerial functions, during the
period of the bar or suspension. See FINRA Rules 8310 and 8311.
Respondent understands that this settlement includes a finding that he willfully violated
Rule 15/-1 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and that under Article III, Section 4 of
FINRA's By-Laws, this makes him subject to a statutory disqualification with respect to
association with a member.
The sanctions imposed in this A WC shall be effective on a date set by FINRA.

3

II.

WAIVER OF PROCEDURAL RIGHTS
Respondent specifically and voluntarily waives the following rights granted under FINRA ' s
Code of Procedure:
A.

To have a complaint issued specifying the allegations against him;

B.

To be notified of the complaint and have the opportunity to answer the allegations
in writing;

C.

To defend against the allegations in a disciplinary hearing before a hearing panel,
to have a written record of the hearing made, and to have a written decision
issued~and

D.

To appeal any such decision to the National Adjudicatory Council (NAC) and
then to the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission and a U.S. Court of
Appeals.

Further, Respondent specifically and voluntarily waives any right to claim bias or prejudgment
of the Chief Legal Officer, the NAC, or any member of the NAC, in connection with such
person's or body's participation in discussions regarding the terms and conditions of this AWC,
or other consideration of this AWC, including its acceptance or rejection.
Respondent further specifically and voluntarily waives any right to claim that a person violated
the ex parte prohibitions ofFINRA Rule 9143 or the separation of functions prohibitions of
FINRA Rule 9144, in connection with such person's or body's participation in discussions
regarding the terms and conditions of this A WC, or other consideration of this A WC, including
its acceptance or rejection.
III.

OTHER MATTERS
Respondent understands that:
A.

Submission of this A WC is voluntary and will not resolve this matter unless and
until it has been reviewed and accepted by the NAC, a Review Subcommittee of
the NAC, or the Office of Disciplinary Affairs (ODA), pursuant to FINRA Rule
9216;

B.

If this AWC is not accepted, its submission will not be used as evidence to prove
any of the allegations against Respondent; and

C.

If accepted:

4

D.

1.

this AWC will become part of Respondent's permanent disciplinary
record and may be considered in any future action brought by FINRA or
any other regulator against Respondent;

2.

this AWC will be made available through FINRA's public disclosure
program in accordance with FINRA Rule 8313;

3.

FINRA may make a public announcement concerning this agreement and
its subject matter in accordance with FINRA Rule 8313; and

4.

Respondent may not take any action or make or permit to be made any
public statement, including in regulatory filings or otherwise, denying,
directly or indirectly, any finding in this AWC or create the impression
that the AWC is without factual basis. Respondent may not take any
position in any proceeding brought by or on behalf of FINRA, or to which
FINRA is a party, that is inconsistent with any part of this AWC. Nothing
in this provision affects Respondent's right to take legal or factual
positions in litigation or other legal proceedings in which FINRA is not a
party. Nothing in this provision affects Respondent's testimonial
obligations in any litigation or other legal proceedings.

Respondent may attach a corrective action statement to this AWC that is a
statement of demonstrable corrective steps taken to prevent future misconduct.
Respondent understands that he may not deny the charges or make any statement
that is inconsistent with the AWC in this statement. This statement does not
constitute factual or legal findings by FINRA, nor does it reflect the views of
FINRA.

Respondent certifies that he has read and understands all of the provisions of this AWC and has
been given a full opportunity to ask questions about it; Respondent understands and
acknowledges that FINRA does not represent or advise him and Respondent cannot rely on
FINRA for legal advice. Respondent has agreed to the A WC's provisions voluntarily; and no

offer, threat, inducement, or promise of any kind, other than the terms set forth in this A WC and
the prospect of avoiding the issuance of a complaint, has been made to induce him to submit this
AWC.

Date

Justin R. Deiter
Respondent

5

Accepted by FINRA:
Signed on behalf of the
Director of ODA, by delegated authority

02/06/2025
Date
Counsel
FINRA
Department of Enforcement

Brookfield Place
200 Liberty Street
New York, NY 10281

6

