FINANCIAL INDUSTRY REGULATORY AUTHORITY
LETTER OF ACCEPTANCE, WAIVER, AND CONSENT
NO. 2018060263201
TO:

Department of Enforcement
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA)

RE:

SI Securities, LLC (Respondent)
Member Firm
CRD No. 170937

Pursuant to FINRA Rule 9216, Respondent SI Securities, LLC submits this Letter of
Acceptance, Waiver, and Consent (AWC) for the purpose of proposing a settlement of the
alleged rule violations described below. This AWC is submitted on the condition that, if
accepted, FINRA will not bring any future actions against Respondent alleging violations based
on the same factual findings described in this AWC.
I.
ACCEPTANCE AND CONSENT
A.

Respondent accepts and consents to the following findings by FINRA without admitting
or denying them:
BACKGROUND
SI Securities, LLC has been a FINRA member since 2014. The firm is headquartered in
Boston, Massachusetts. It has four registered representatives. Until May 2023, SI
Securities and its affiliates operated an online platform through which its customers
invested in private placements. As of May 2023, the firm no longer operates that
platform, and the firm stopped selling private placements, and has since limited its
operations. 1
OVERVIEW
From December 2022 to January 2023, SI Securities failed to terminate a private
placement offering and return investor funds when a material change occurred to the
minimum contingency, in violation of Securities Exchange Act of 1934 Rule 10b-9 and
FINRA Rule 2010. From May 2017 to May 2023, the firm failed to return funds directly
from its escrow agent to investors in terminated offerings, in violation of Section 15(c)(2)
of the Exchange Act, Rule 15c2-4 thereunder, and FINRA Rule 2010. From January 2016
through March 2021, for 56 private placement offerings, the firm failed to file timely
required documents with FINRA and failed to provide all required information or
documents for an additional two offerings, in violation of FINRA Rules 5123 and 2010.
From January 2016 to January 2022, the firm failed to keep a separate file of all written

1

For more information about the firm, visit BrokerCheck® at www.finra.org/brokercheck.

customer complaints, in violation of FINRA Rules 4513 and 2010. From January 2016 to
December 2021 and January 2023 to May 2023, the firm failed to report at least 55
written customer complaints to FINRA, in violation of FINRA Rules 4530(d) and 2010.
Between June 2020 and May 2023, the firm failed to establish and maintain a supervisory
system, including any written supervisory procedures (WSPs), reasonably designed to
achieve compliance with requirements to prepare, file, and deliver a customer
relationship summary (Form CRS), in violation of FINRA Rules 3110 and 2010.
Between June 2020 and May 2023, it also failed to deliver a Form CRS to retail
customers, therefore it willfully violated Exchange Act § 17(a)(1) and Exchange Act
Rule 17a-14.
FACTS AND VIOLATIVE CONDUCT
This matter originated from reviews by FINRA’s Corporate Financing Department and
Member Supervision.
A. SI Securities Failed to Return Investor Funds after a Material Change to the
Minimum Contingency in One Offering.
Exchange Act Rule 10b-9 requires, in connection with the sale of securities on an “all-ornone” or “part-or-none” basis, disclosure to investors that consideration paid for
securities will be promptly refunded unless the minimum number of securities are sold at
a specified price within a specified time, and the total amount due to the seller is received
by a specified date. The offering may only be considered “sold” if the securities are sold
in bona fide transactions and are fully paid for. A “contingency offering” is when the
offering is subject to the satisfaction of an underlying condition, including a minimum
contingency amount. While not a guarantee, satisfaction of the minimum contingency
indicates to investors that the offering was priced fairly.
Any change in a material term of an “all-or-none” or “part or none” offering requires the
offering to be terminated and investor funds to be returned. Investors cannot waive this
requirement by affirmatively consenting to the changes, except to extend the termination
date of the offering. A broker-dealer that fails to terminate an offering following a
material change to the terms of an offering—including changing the minimum
contingency amount—violates Exchange Act Rule 10b-9.
A violation of Exchange Act Rule 10b-9 is also a violation of FINRA Rule 2010, which
requires members and associated persons, in the conduct of their business, to “observe
high standards of commercial honor and just and equitable principles of trade.”
Beginning in October 2022, SI sold subscriptions to a private placement offering on a
best efforts basis. The private placement memorandum stated that a closing would not
occur until the offering met a minimum contingency of $1.29 million in investor
subscriptions by the December 2, 2022, termination date. On December 1, 2022, the
issuer reduced the minimum contingency amount to $790,000. Because this reduction
was a material change to the terms of the offering, SI Securities was required to, but did
not, terminate the offering and return investor funds at that time. Instead, on December 9,
2

2022, the firm asked investors via email to affirmatively reconfirm their subscriptions
subject to the reduced minimum contingency amount. Customers who did not
affirmatively reconfirm their subscription were refunded in full. After the offering raised
approximately $935,000, an amount that exceeded the amended contingency target, the
firm permitted the issuer to close in January 2023. The firm’s instructions to the escrow
agent to release the funds to the issuer and its internal records showed that the original
minimum contingency of $1.29 million was not met and that funds were not returned to
investors following the material change to the offering.
Therefore, Respondent willfully violated Exchange Act Rule 10b-9 and FINRA Rule
2010.
B. SI Securities Failed to Return Funds Directly to Investors for Terminated
Offerings.
A broker-dealer that participates in a contingency offering and receives funds from
investors must comply with the requirements of Exchange Act Rule 15c2-4. Rule 15c2-4
requires investor funds in a contingency offering to be promptly (1) deposited in a
separate bank account as agent or trustee, with the funds promptly transmitted or returned
to investors if the contingency is not met, or (2) transmitted to a bank that has agreed in
writing to hold the funds in escrow and transmit or return such funds directly to the
customers if the contingency is not met. Therefore, a broker-dealer must ensure that
investors’ funds are promptly refunded and returned directly to investors when a
contingency offering fails to meet the contingency minimum. A violation of Exchange
Act Rule 15c2-4 is also a violation of FINRA Rule 2010.
From May 2017 through May 2023, the firm received investor funds and transmitted
them to a bank acting as its escrow agent. For terminated offerings that did not meet the
minimum contingency, the firm instructed the escrow agent to send refunds to a separate
firm account designated as a “Special Account for the Exclusive Benefit of Customers of
SI Securities,” rather than directly to investors. The firm promptly reimbursed investors
from the special account. The firm processed approximately 1,000 customer refunds in
this manner. The firm ceased selling private placement offerings in May 2023.
Therefore, Respondent violated Section 15(c)(2) of the Exchange Act, Rule 15c2-4
thereunder, and FINRA Rule 2010.
C. SI Securities Failed to File Timely with FINRA Required Documents and
Information for More than 50 Private Placements.
FINRA Rule 5123 requires member firms selling a private placement to (1) submit to
FINRA a copy of any private placement memorandum, term sheet, other offering
document, or retail communication promoting or recommending the private placement
used in connection with such sale within 15 calendar days of the date of first sale or (2)
notify FINRA that no such offering documents or retail communications were used. A
violation of FINRA Rule 5123 is also a violation of FINRA Rule 2010.
3

From January 2016 through March 2021, SI Securities failed to meet the filing
requirements for 58 private placements. For 39 offerings, the firm made the filings
between two and 383 days late. For 17 offerings, the firm failed to file any documents or
notify FINRA that no such documents were used. And for two offerings, the firm did not
provide all required information or documents. After March 2021, the firm filed timely
all required documents with FINRA.
Therefore, Respondent violated FINRA Rules 5123 and 2010.
D. SI Securities Failed to Keep a Separate File of All Written Customer
Complaints.
FINRA Rule 4513 requires each member firm to “keep and preserve . . . a separate file of
all written customer complaints.” A violation of FINRA Rule 4513 is also a violation of
FINRA Rule 2010.
From January 2016 through January 2022, SI Securities failed to keep a separate file of
all written customer complaints.
Therefore, Respondent violated FINRA Rules 4513 and 2010.
E. SI Securities Failed to Report Customer Complaints to FINRA.
FINRA Rule 4530(d) requires firms to “report to FINRA statistical and summary
information regarding written customer complaints in such detail as FINRA shall specify
by the 15th day of the month following the calendar quarter in which customer complaints
are received by the member.” To comply with Rule 4530(d), members must report any
written grievance by a customer if the grievance concerns the member or an associated
person of the member. 2 A violation of FINRA Rule 4530 also constitutes a violation of
FINRA Rule 2010.
From January 2016 through January 2022, SI Securities failed to report at least 15
customer complaints as a result of its misunderstanding of what was required to be
reported under FINRA Rule 4530(d). Specifically, until February 2022, the firm
mistakenly believed that only operational complaints needed to be reported.
From February 2023 through May 2023, the firm failed to report at least 40 customer
complaints. During this period, the firm received a high number of written customer
communications, many of which were complaints, related to an issuer that announced it
was seeking to file for corporate dissolution. The firm failed to report all of the
complaints because it failed to adequately differentiate customer complaints from the

2

FINRA Rule 4530, Supplementary Material .08.

4

voluminous customer communications it received regarding the issuer. 3 In May 2023, the
firm shut down its operations after its parent company sold the firm’s investment
platform.
Therefore, Respondent violated FINRA Rules 4530(d) and 2010.
F. SI Securities Failed to Have a Supervisory System, Including Written
Supervisory Procedures, Reasonably Designed to Achieve Compliance with its
Form CRS Obligations and Failed to Deliver Timely Form CRS to Customers.
On June 5, 2019, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) adopted Form CRS
and rules creating new requirements—which include requirements to prepare and deliver
the Form CRS—for SEC-registered broker-dealers offering services to a retail investor.
The compliance date for Form CRS was June 30, 2020.
Form CRS provides customers with information about the types of services the firm
offers; the fees, costs, conflicts of interest, and required standard of conduct associated
with those services; whether the firm and its investment professionals have reportable
legal or disciplinary history; and how to get more information about the firm.
Form CRS also includes required “conversation starters” to help begin a discussion with
a broker-dealer about the relationship, including their services, fees, costs, conflicts, and
disciplinary information.
Section 17(a)(1) of the Exchange Act requires registered broker-dealers to make and keep
for prescribed periods such records, furnish such copies thereof, and make and
disseminate such reports as the Commission deems “necessary or appropriate in the
public interest, for the protection of investors or otherwise in furtherance of the purposes
of” the Exchange Act. Exchange Act Rule 17a-14—titled “Form CRS, for preparation,
filing and delivery of Form CRS”—requires broker-dealers offering services to a retail
investor to prepare a Form CRS in accordance with the instructions in Form CRS, and to
comply with requirements related to filing, amending, delivering, and posting the Form
CRS to the firm’s public website.
FINRA Rule 3110 requires member firms to establish, maintain, and enforce a
supervisory system, including WSPs, reasonably designed to achieve compliance with
applicable securities laws, regulations, and FINRA rules.
A violation of Exchange Act § 17(a)(1), Exchange Act Rule 17a-14 and FINRA Rule
3110 is also a violation of FINRA Rule 2010.
Between June 30, 2020, and May 5, 2023, SI Securities failed to establish and maintain a
supervisory system, including WSPs, reasonably designed to achieve compliance with
During this period, the firm reported 75 customer complaints under Rule 4530, most of which related to the issuer
filing for dissolution.

3

5

Form CRS requirements. From June 30, 2020, through February 28, 2022, the firm’s
WSPs contained no provisions relating to Form CRS. In March 2022, the firm updated its
WSPs to provide guidance regarding Form CRS. However, SI Securities did not
meaningfully change its methods of Form CRS delivery and did not fully implement the
WSPs. SI Securities has had no retail customer transactions since May 2023.
SI Securities also failed to deliver timely Form CRS to its retail customers. Specifically,
SI Securities failed to deliver Form CRS to over 15,000 existing retail customers within
30 days of June 30, 2020. Additionally, in at least 20,000 instances between June 30,
2020, and May 5, 2023, the firm failed to deliver Form CRS to retail investors when
issuing a recommendation, placing an order, opening a brokerage account, or
recommending or providing a new service. The firm’s only method of delivery was to
provide a link to Form CRS when investors signed up or made transactions via the firm’s
website. However, that link was not prominently displayed and therefore did not satisfy
the Form CRS delivery requirement. Separately, the firm posted Form CRS to its website,
but the Form CRS was not posted prominently and therefore did not satisfy the Form
CRS website posting requirements.
Therefore, Respondent willfully violated Exchange Act § 17(a)(1) and Exchange Act
Rule 17a-14, and violated FINRA Rules 3110 and 2010.
B.

Respondent also consents to the imposition of the following sanctions:


a censure; and



a $185,000 fine.

Respondent agrees to pay the monetary sanction upon notice that this AWC has been
accepted and that such payment is due and payable. Respondent has submitted an
Election of Payment form showing the method by which it proposes to pay the fine
imposed.
Respondent specifically and voluntarily waives any right to claim an inability to pay, now
or at any time after the execution of this AWC, the monetary sanction imposed in this
matter.
Respondent understands that this settlement includes a finding that it willfully violated §
17(a)(1) and Rules 17a-4 and Rule 10b-9 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and that
under Article III, Section 4 of FINRA’s By-Laws, this makes Respondent subject to a
statutory disqualification with respect to membership.
The sanctions imposed in this AWC shall be effective on a date set by FINRA.

6

II.
WAIVER OF PROCEDURAL RIGHTS
Respondent specifically and voluntarily waives the following rights granted under FINRA’s
Code of Procedure:
A.

To have a complaint issued specifying the allegations against it;

B.

To be notified of the complaint and have the opportunity to answer the allegations
in writing;

C.

To defend against the allegations in a disciplinary hearing before a hearing panel,
to have a written record of the hearing made, and to have a written decision
issued; and

D.

To appeal any such decision to the National Adjudicatory Council (NAC) and
then to the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission and a U.S. Court of
Appeals.

Further, Respondent specifically and voluntarily waives any right to claim bias or prejudgment
of the Chief Legal Officer, the NAC, or any member of the NAC, in connection with such
person’s or body’s participation in discussions regarding the terms and conditions of this AWC,
or other consideration of this AWC, including its acceptance or rejection.
Respondent further specifically and voluntarily waives any right to claim that a person violated
the ex parte prohibitions of FINRA Rule 9143 or the separation of functions prohibitions of
FINRA Rule 9144, in connection with such person’s or body’s participation in discussions
regarding the terms and conditions of this AWC, or other consideration of this AWC, including
its acceptance or rejection.
III.
OTHER MATTERS
Respondent understands that:
A.

Submission of this AWC is voluntary and will not resolve this matter unless and
until it has been reviewed and accepted by the NAC, a Review Subcommittee of
the NAC, or the Office of Disciplinary Affairs (ODA), pursuant to FINRA Rule
9216;

B.

If this AWC is not accepted, its submission will not be used as evidence to prove
any of the allegations against Respondent; and

7

Reviewed by:

dd M. Beaton, Jr.
Counsel for Respon ent
McGuire Woods LLP
1251 Avenue of the Americas
20th Floor
New York, NY 10020
Accepted by FINRA:
Signed on behalf of the
Director of ODA, by delegated authority
July 2, 2024
Date

Katherine Florio
Principal Counsel
FINRA
Department of Enforcement
Brookfield Place
200 Liberty Street
New York, NY 10281
Catherine Hoge
Counsel
FINRA
Department of Enforcement
Brookfield Place
200 Liberty Street
New York, NY 10281

9

