FINANCIAL INDUSTRY REGULATORY AUTHORITY
LETTER OF ACCEPTANCE, WAIVER, AND CONSENT

NO.2018056490307
TO:

Department of Enforcement
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA)

RE:

Joao A. Pinto (Respondent)
General Securities Representative and Investment Company and Variable Contracts
Products Representative
CRD No. 6298233

Pursuant to FINRA Rule 9216, Respondent Joao A. Pinto submits this Letter of Acceptance,
Waiver, and Consent (AWC) for the purpose of proposing a settlement of the alleged rule
violations described below. This A WC is submitted on the condition that, if accepted, FINRA
will not bring any future actions against Respondent alleging violations based on the same
factual findings described in this A WC.

I.
ACCEPTANCE AND CONSENT
A.

Respondent accepts and consents to the following findings by FINRA without admitting
or denying them:

BACKGROUND
Pinto first registered with FINRA as an Investment Company and Variable Contracts
Products Representative (IR) in September 2014 and as a General Securities
Representative (GS) in August 2017. Since October 2019, Pinto has been registered with
FINRA as an IR and as a GS through Spartan Capital Securities, LLC (Spartan) (CRD
No. 146251). 1

OVERVIEW
From January 2020 through June 2021, Respondent recommended a series of trades in
one senior customer's account that were excessive, unsuitable, and not in the customer's
best interest. By this conduct, Respondent willfully violated the Best Interest Obligation
under Rule 15/-1 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (Regulation BI) (for the period
June 30, 2020, through June 2021) and violated FINRA Rule 2111 (for the period
January 2020 through June 29, 2020) and FINRA Rule 2010.

1

For more information about the respondent, visit BrokerCheck® at www.finra.org/brokercheck.

FACTS AND VIOLATIVE CONDUCT
This matter originated from FINRA's 2018 cycle exam of Spartan.
As of June 30, 2020, broker-dealers and their associated persons are required to comply
with Regulation BI under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Regulation Bi's Best
Interest Obligation requires a broker, dealer, or a natural person associated with a broker
or dealer, when making a recommendation of any securities transaction or investment
strategy involving securities (including account recommendations) to a retail customer, to
act in the best interest of that retail customer at the time the recommendation is made,
without placing the financial or other interest of the broker, dealer, or associated person
ahead of the interest of the retail customer. Regulation Bi's Care Obligation, set forth at
Exchange Act Rule 15/-l(a)(2)(ii), requires broker-dealers and their associated persons to
exercise reasonable diligence, care, and skill to, among other things, have a reasonable
basis to believe that a series of recommended transactions, even if in the retail customer's
best interest when viewed in isolation, is not excessive and is in the retail customer's best
interest in light of the retail customer's investment profile. A violation of Regulation BI
also is a violation of FINRA Rule 2010, which requires associated persons to "observe
high standards of commercial honor and just and equitable principles of trade" in the
conduct of their business.
Prior to June 30, 2020, FINRA Rule 2111 required members and associated persons to
have a reasonable basis to believe that a recommended transaction or investment strategy
involving a security or securities is suitable for the customer. FINRA's suitability rule
included an obligation to adhere to standards of "quantitative suitability"-i.e., whether
the quantity of activity within a given timeframe is suitable in light of the customer's
financial circumstances and investment objectives. Under Rule 211 l.05(c), members and
associated persons with actual or de facto control over an account were required to have a
reasonable basis for believing that a series of recommended transactions, even if suitable
when viewed in isolation, are not excessive and unsuitable for the customer in light of the
customer's investment profile. A violation ofFINRA Rule 2111 also is a violation of
FINRA Rule 2010.
No single test defines when trading is excessive, but factors such as the turnover rate and
the cost-to-equity ratio are relevant to determining whether a member firm or associated
person has excessively traded a customer's account. The turnover rate represents the
number of times that a portfolio of securities is exchanged for another portfolio of
securities. The cost-to-equity ratio measures the amount an account must appreciate just
to cover commissions and other expenses. In other words, it is the break-even point
where a customer may begin to see a return. A turnover rate of six or a cost-to-equity
ratio above 20 percent generally indicates that a series of recommended transactions was
excessive.
In November 2019, the customer opened an account at Spartan with Pinto. At that time,
the customer was 68 years old and retired.

From January 2020 through June 2021, Pinto engaged in quantitatively unsuitable trading
in the customer's account. Pinto recommended high frequency trading in the customer's
account, and the customer routinely followed his recommendations. As a result, Pinto
exercised de facto control over the customer's account.
Pinto' s trading resulted in a high turnover rate and cost-to-equity ratio, as well as
significant losses. In particular, Pinto effected 130 transactions in the customer's account,
resulting in an annualized turnover rate of 14 and an annualized cost-to-equity ratio of
55%. Pinto's trading in the customer's account generated total trading costs of $92,237,
including $83,484 in commissions, and caused $141,051 in realized losses. The high
cost-to-equity ratio meant the customer's account would have to grow by 55% annually
just to break even. This level of trading was excessive, unsuitable, and not in the best
interest of the customer.
Therefore, Respondent willfully violated Exchange Act Rule 15/-1 (for the period June
30, 2020, through June 2021) and violated FINRA Rule 2 I I 1 (for the period January
2020 through June 29, 2020) and FINRA Rule 2010.
B.

Respondent also consents to the imposition of the following sanctions:
■

a three-month suspension from associating with any FINRA member in all
capacities.

Respondent has submitted a statement of financial condition and demonstrated an
inability to pay. In light of Respondent's financial status, no monetary sanctions have
been imposed.
Respondent understands that if he is barred or suspended from associating with any
FINRA member, he becomes subject to a statutory disqualification as that term is defined
in Article III, Section 4 of FINRA's By-Laws, incorporating Section 3(a)(39) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Accordingly, he may not be associated with any
FINRA member in any capacity, including clerical or ministerial functions, during the
period of the bar or suspension. See FINRA Rules 8310 and 8311.
Respondent understands that this settlement includes a finding that he willfully violated
Rule 15/-1 of the Securities Exchange Act of I 934 and that under Article III, Section 4 of
FINRA' s By-Laws, this makes him subject to a statutory disqualification with respect to
association with a member.
The sanctions imposed in this A WC shall be effective on a date set by FINRA.
II.
WAIVER OF PROCEDURAL RIGHTS

Respondent specifically and voluntarily waives the following rights granted under FINRA's
Code of Procedure:

A.

To have a complaint issued specifying the allegations against him;

B.

To be notified of the complaint and have the opportunity to answer the allegations
in writing;

C.

To defend against the allegations in a disciplinary hearing before a hearing panel,
to have a written record of the hearing made, and to have a written decision
issued; and

D.

To appeal any such decision to the National Adjudicatory Council (NAC) and
then to the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission and a U.S. Court of
Appeals.

Further, Respondent specifically and voluntarily waives any right to claim bias or prejudgment
of the Chief Legal Officer, the NAC, or any member of the NAC, in connection with such
person's or body's participation in discussions regarding the terms and conditions of this A WC,
or other consideration of this A WC, including its acceptance or rejection.
Respondent further specifically and voluntarily waives any right to claim that a person violated
the ex parte prohibitions of FINRA Rule 9143 or the separation of functions prohibitions of
FINRA Rule 9144, in connection with such person's or body's participation in discussions
regarding the terms and conditions of this A WC, or other consideration of this A WC, including
its acceptance or rejection.

III.
OTHER MATTERS

Respondent understands that:
A.

Submission of this AWC is voluntary and will not resolve this matter unless and
until it has been reviewed and accepted by the NAC, a Review Subcommittee of
the NAC, or the Office of Disciplinary Affairs (ODA), pursuant to FINRA Rule
9216;

B.

If this AWC is not accepted, its submission will not be used as evidence to prove
any of the allegations against Respondent; and

C.

If accepted:
1.

this A WC will become part of Respondent's permanent disciplinary
record and may be considered in any future action brought by FINRA or
any other regulator against Respondent;

2.

this AWC will be made available through FINRA's public disclosure
program in accordance with FINRA Rule 8313;

D.

3.

FINRA may make a public announcement concerning this agreement and
its subject matter in accordance with FINRA Rule 8313; and

4.

Respondent may not take any action or make or permit to be made any
public statement, including in regulatory filings or otherwise, denying,
directly or indirectly, any finding in this AW C or create the impression
that the A WC is without factual basis. Respondent may not take any
position in any proceeding brought by or on behalf of FINRA, or to which
FINRA is a party, that is inconsistent with any part of this AWC. Nothing
in this provision affects Respondent's right to take legal or factual
positions in litigation or other legal proceedings in which FINRA is not a
party. Nothing in this provision affects Respondent's testimonial
obligations in any litigation or other legal proceedings.

Respondent may attach a corrective action statement to this A WC that is a
statement of demonstrable corrective steps taken to prevent future misconduct.
Respondent understands that he may not deny the charges or make any statement
that is inconsistent with the AWC in this statement. This statement does not
constitute factual or legal findings by FINRA, nor does it reflect the views of
FINRA.

Respondent certifies that he has read and understands all of the provisions of this A WC and has
been given a full opportunity to ask questions about it; Respondent has agreed to the A WC's
provisions voluntarily; and no offer, threat, inducement, or promise of any kind, other than the
terms set forth in this A WC and the prospect of avoiding the issuance of a complaint, has been
made to induce him to submit this AW C.

Date

I

I

Reviewed by:

Liam O'Brien Esq.
Counsel for Respondent
McCormick & O'Brien, LLP
125 Park A venue, 25th Floor
New York, New York 10017
Signed on behalf of the
Director of ODA, by delegated authority

11/21/2023
Date

Michael Dorfman-Gonzalez
Senior Counsel
FINRA
Department of Enforcement
Brookfield Place
200 Liberty Street
New York, NY I 0281

