FINANCIAL INDUSTRY REGULATORY AUTHORITY
LETTER OF ACCEPTANCE, WAIVER, AND CONSENT
NO. 2019060756501
TO:

Department of Enforcement
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA)

RE:

Robinhood Financial, LLC (Respondent)
Member Firm
CRD No. 165998
and
Robinhood Securities, LLC (Respondent)
Member Firm
CRD No. 287900

Pursuant to FINRA Rule 9216, Respondents Robinhood Financial, LLC (RHF) and Robinhood
Securities, LLC (RHS) (collectively, Robinhood) submit this Letter of Acceptance, Waiver, and
Consent (AWC) for the purpose of proposing a settlement of the alleged rule violations described
below. This AWC is submitted on the condition that, if accepted, FINRA will not bring any
future actions against Respondents alleging violations based on the same factual findings
described in this AWC.
I.
ACCEPTANCE AND CONSENT
A.

Respondents accept and consent to the following findings by FINRA without admitting
or denying them:
BACKGROUND
RHF became a FINRA member firm in October 2013 and launched its online trading
platform in December 2014. RHF offers commission-free, self-directed trading for retail
investors through its mobile applications and website. RHF is headquartered in Lake
Mary, Florida, and has approximately 540 registered representatives at six branch offices.
RHS became a FINRA member firm in October 2017. In November 2018, RHS became
the exclusive clearing and carrying firm for its affiliate, RHF. RHS carries customer
accounts introduced by RHF on a fully disclosed basis. RHS is headquartered in Lake
Mary, Florida, and has approximately 150 registered representatives at six branch offices.
In June 2021, RHF entered into an AWC with FINRA, through which it consented to
findings that, between 2014 and 2021, the firm, among other things:

• Negligently distributed false and misleading information to customers, and failed

to reasonably supervise communications with customers, including but not limited
to communications about the cash balances in their accounts, whether customers'
trading could result in the use of margin, and the risks associated with certain
options transactions, in violation of FINRA Rules 2010, 2210, 2220, and 3110;
and

• Failed to establish or maintain a reasonably designed customer identification

program between June 2016 to November 2018, in violation of FINRA Rules
3110 and 2010.

RHF consented to a censure, a $57 million fine, a requirement to pay restitution of
$12,598,445 plus interest, and an undertaking to retain a third-party consultant and
submit to FINRA a certification that the firm had ceased making the negligent
misrepresentations and omissions set forth in the AWC.1
OVERVIEW
From May 2014 through September 2023, RHF, and from at least November 2018
through July 2022, RHS, failed to establish and maintain supervisory systems that were
reasonably designed for the firms' brokerage businesses, resulting in numerous violations
of securities laws and FINRA rules.
Providing customers with inaccurate or incomplete disclosures regarding collaring From July 2016 to October 2021, RHF did not accurately and completely disclose to
customers its practice of "collaring" market orders by converting them to limit orders,
and, from May 2014 to December 2021, RHF's supervisory system was not reasonably
designed to achieve compliance with RHF' s obligations under FINRA Rules 2210 and
2010 to communicate to customers accurate and fair and balanced information about its
order handling practices. As a result, RHF violated FINRA Rules 2210, 3110, and 2010
(both independently and by virtue of the foregoing rule violations), and NASD Rule
3010.
Failure to establish reasonable AML programs and CIP- From January 2017 through
November 2021, RHF, and from November 2018 to November 2021, RHS failed to
establish and implement reasonable anti-money laundering (AML) programs, which
caused the firms to fail to detect, investigate, or report a wide variety of suspicious
activity, including manipulative trading, suspicious money movements, and instances
where customers' accounts were taken over by third-party hackers. From November 2018
through August 2020, RHF also failed to establish a reasonable customer identification
program (CIP). As a result, Robinhood violated FINRA Rules 3310 and 2010.
Failure to reasonably supervise technology usedfor clearing operations - From March
2020 through at least January 2021, RHS failed to reasonably supervise its clearing
1

For more information about the firms, including prior regulatory events, visit BrokerCheck® at
www.finra.org/brokercheck.

2

technology system despite red flags of processing delays due to increased demand on the
system. In January 2021, the clearing technology system experienced severe latency due
to significant trading volumes and volatility, which, in tum, impacted RHS' s clearing
operations and its ability to satisfy certain regulatory obligations. As a result, RHS
violated FINRA Rules 3110 and 2010.
Failure to reasonably supervise FINRA registrations - From January 2016 through July
2021, RHF, and, from at least November 2018 through July 2021, RHS, failed to
reasonably supervise whether the firms' asso ciated persons had the FINRA registrations
required for their job functions. As a result, Robinhood violated NASD Rule 1021, and
FINRA Rules 1210, 3110, and 2010.

Failure to reasonably supervise trading in associated persons' accounts - From at least
October 2018 until January 2022, Robinhood failed to reasonably supervise trading in
associated persons' brokerage accounts. As a result, Robinhood violated FINRA Rules
3110 and 2010.
Failure to reasonably supervise communications by social media influencers - From
November 2019 through March 2023, RHF failed to reasonably supervise or retain social
media communications that promoted the firm and that were posted by individuals with
followings on social media sites (commonly known as "influencers"). Some of those
communications included statements that were promissory or not fair and balanced. As a
result, RHF violated FINRA Rules 2210, 3110, 4511, and 2010, Exchange Act Section
17(a), and Exchange Act Rule 17a-4.
Improper rejections ofA CATS requests - From November 2018 through July 2022,
RHS improperly rejected more than 116,000 customer requests to transfer their accounts
to another brokerage firm through the Automated Customer Account Transfer Service
(ACATS), in violation of FINRA Rules 3110, 11870, and 2010.

Failure to reasonably supervise delivery of account documents to customers - From
July 2018 through September 2023, RHF failed to reasonably supervise delivery of its
customer relationship summary (Form CRS), account statements, and trade
confirmations. As a result, RHF violated FINRA Rules 3110 and 2010.
Maintenance and reporting of inaccurate or incomplete trade, order, and position data
From at least November 2018 through July 2022, RHS failed to reasonably supervise
its reporting of accurate and complete trade, order, and position data to FINRA, FINRA
trade reporting facilities, the Consolidated Audit Trail (CAT) Central Repository, and the
Options Clearing Corporation. These failures impacted tens of thousands of blue sheets
(i.e., submissions of trade data to FINRA in an automated format upon request) and other
reported data concerning hundreds of millions of trades, orders, or positions, including
fractional share transactions, options orders, large options positions, and short interest
positions, some of which persisted until April 2024. As a result, RHS violated FINRA
Rules 2360(b)(5), 4560, 6182, 6380A, 6622, 6624, 6830, 6893, 7230A, 7330, 8211,
8213, 3110, and 2010. In addition, from July 2019 through February 2022, RHF failed to
reasonably supervise the accuracy of its origin code designations, and, as a result,
3

mismarked options orders for millions of contracts with an inaccurate origin code. RHF
violated Exchange Act Section 17(a), Exchange Act Rule 17a-3(a)(6)(i), and FINRA
Rules 4511, 3110, and 2010.
Failure to prevent trading during halts and failure to reasonably supervise the
execution of trades above or below specified price bands during times of extraordinary
market volatility - From at least December 2019 through January 2023, RHS improperly
effected trades in securities that were subject to trading halts in violation of FINRA Rules
5260, 6121, 3110, and 2010. In addition, from December 2019 through June 2022, RHS
failed to establish and maintain a supervisory system reasonably designed to prevent the
execution of trades during extraordinary market volatility at prices that were above or
below specified price bands. As a result, RHS violated FINRA Rules 6190, 3110, and
2010.
FACTS AND VIOLATIVE CONDUCT
The matters included in this AWC originated from numerous sources, including
examinations of both RHF and RHS, cause examinations resulting from customer
complaints, FINRA surveillance, and disclosures by the firms pursuant to FINRA Rule
4530.
A.

RHF provided customers with inaccurate communications about its practice
of converting most market orders into limit orders.

FINRA Rule 2210(d) sets forth content standards for firms' communications with the
public, including retail communications. Among other things, FINRA Rule
2210(d)(1)(A) requires that communications be "fair and balanced." Rule 2210(d)(1)(A)
further prohibits a member's communication from omitting "any material fact . . . if the
omission, in light of the context of the material presented, would cause the
communications to be misleading." FINRA Rule 2210(d)(1)(B) prohibits, among other
things, a member's communication from containing any "false, exaggerated,
unwarranted, promissory or misleading statement or claim." FINRA Rule 2210(d)(l)(D)
also requires that member firms "ensure that statements are clear and not misleading
within the context in which they are made, and that they provide balanced treatment of
risks and potential benefits." Pursuant to FINRA Rule 2210(d)(1)(E), member firms must
also "consider the nature of the audience .. . and . . . provide details and explanations
appropriate to the audience" to which communications are directed. A violation of
FINRA Rule 2210 also constitutes a violation of FINRA Rule 2010, which requires
member firms to observe high standards of commercial honor and just and equitable
principles of trade in the conduct of their business.
Making misrepresentations or omissions of material fact is an independent violation of
FINRA Rule 2010.

4

FINRA Rule 3110(a) and its predecessor, NASD Rule 3010(a),2 require a member firm to
establish and maintain a system to supervise the activities of each associated person that
is reasonably designed to achieve compliance with applicable securities laws and
regulations, and with applicable FINRA and NASD rules. FINRA Rule 3110(b) and its
predecessor, NASD Rule 3010(b), require a member firm to establish, maintain, and
enforce written procedures to supervise the types of business in which it engages and the
activities of its associated persons that are reasonably designed to achieve compliance
with applicable securities laws and regulations, and with applicable FINRA and NASD
rules. The duty to supervise also includes the responsibility to investigate "red flags" that
suggest that misconduct may be occurring and to act upon the results of such
investigation. A violation of FINRA Rule 3110 or NASD Rule 3010 also is a violation of
FINRA Rule 2010.
1.

RHF "collared" market orders.

From May 2014 to at least December 2021, RHF converted market orders, stop orders,
and trailing stop orders into limit orders, a practice known as "collaring." RHF
implemented collaring to prevent executions at prices far away from the prices customers
saw at the time they placed their orders, and to prevent customers from exceeding their
buying power. RHF described collaring in various disclosures made to customers, but
those disclosures were not always clear or accurate.
Market orders are generally understood in the securities industry to be orders to buy or
sell securities immediately at the best available price.3 Similarly, stop orders and trailing
stop orders are generally understood in the securities industry to be market orders that
trigger when the applicable stop price is reached.4 RHF, however, converted market, stop,
and trailing stop orders into limit orders, which are orders to execute a trade at or better
than a specified price (limit price),5 by applying a limit price that generally was up to 5%
below (for sales) or 5% above (for purchases) a reference price.6 Thus, if a customer
placed a market buy order for a security with a last trade price of $100, RHF placed a buy
order with a limit price of $105 ($100 x 1.05).
On the order entry screens ofRHF's mobile application and website, the firm permitted
customers to enter orders titled "market order," "stop order," and "trailing stop order,"
and used the term "market order" to describe the orders. The order entry screens did not
2

FINRA Rule 3110 superseded NASD Rule 3010 on December 1, 2014.

3

See, e.g., SEC, Investor Bulletin: Understanding Order Types, https://www.investor.gov/introductioninvesting/general-resources/news-alerts/alerts-bulletins/investor-bulletins-14.
4

See FINRA Rule 5350(a) (defining stop orders); SEC, Investor Bulletin: Understanding Order Types,
https://www.investor.gov/introduction-investing/general-resources/news-alerts/alerts-bulletins/investor-bulletins-14
(defining stop orders and trailing stop orders).
5
Limit orders are ''not guaranteed to execute," and "can only be filled if the stock's market price reaches the limit
price." See, e.g., SEC, Investor Bulletin: Understanding Order Types, https://www.investor.gov/introductioninvesting/general-resources/news-alerts/alerts-bulletins/investor-bulletins-14 (defining limit orders).
6

The relevant reference prices were: last trade price (for market orders), stop price (for stop orders), and initial
trailing stop price (for trailing stop orders).

5

describe RHF's collaring practice. After customers submitted their market orders, RHF
sent them confirmation emails stating, "You have submitted a market order to [buy/sell]
[number] of share(s) of [symbol] .... " RHF sent similar messages through its mobile
applications, stating, "We've received your order to [buy/sell] . . . at the best available
price." If a customer checked his or her order status, RHF's trading platform advised that
the customer had a pending "market" buy or sell order.
The firm's customer agreement and use and risk disclosures contained disclosures about
collaring beginning in June 2014. For example, the firm's June 2014 Customer
Agreement required customers to agree, "I understand that Robinhood Financial does not
currently support sending traditional market orders and that Robinhood Financial collars
all market orders by using limit orders priced 5% away from the inside market. I further
understand that when I send a market buy (or sell) order through Robinhood Financial's
trading systems, the trading system generates a limit order priced 5% above (or below)
the best offer, and then Robinhood Financial ships the order off to its executing broker."
RHF also subsequently added certain disclosures about collaring to its website "Help
Center" articles.

2.

RHF made inaccurate statements to customers about its collaring
practices.

The firm's disclosures describing collaring in its customer agreement, use and risk
disclosures, and website "Help Center" articles did not accurately and completely
describe RHF's collaring practice from July 2016 to October 2021. As RHF expanded

and modified its collaring practices over time, it did not always update these disclosures
to reflect these changes. For example:
•

Beginning in July 2016, RHF "repriced" collars before routing orders for

execution by calculating new collars up to 5% of the prevailing market price.7
RHF did not disclose this repricing practice anywhere. This practice also made
certain disclosures inaccurate, such as an October 2017 Help Center article that
stated that collars would be based on the previous closing price.8

7
Robinhood applied the second, ''repriced" collar only if the resulting limit price was closer to the last trade price
that it used to calculate the first collar, as compared against the limit price that resulted from RHF's application of
the initial collar. For instance, if a customer placed a market buy for a security valued at $100 when the first collar
was calculated, but the market price of the security moved to $97 before order routing, the first collar would result in
a limit price of $105, while the second collar (assuming a 5% collar) would result in a limit price of $101.85 ($97 x
1.05). Because the second collar would result in a limit price closer to the last trade price that was used to calculate
the first collar-$ I 00---Robinhood would apply the second, ''repriced" collar to the order. If, however, the market
price increased prior to repricing, the second collar would not be applied, because it would result in a limit price
further from the last trade price that was used to calculate the first collar. For example, if the market price increased
to $103 before order routing, only the first collar (with a limit price of $105) would be applied, because the second
collar would result in a limit price of $108.15 ($103 x 1.05).
8

The "Trading on Robinhood" Help Center article that was available on the firm's website in October 2017 stated
that the last trade price used to price orders would be ''the previous closing price," when, in fact, due to repricing, a
collared price could be based on pre-market trading prices.

6

• Also beginning in July 2016, when RHF introduced extended hours trading,9 it

collared all orders, including market sell orders, that customers placed during
extended hours trading. RHF did not update all of its disclosures accordingly. For
example, from July 2016 until October 2021, RHF's customer agreement
disclosed that the firm collared after-hours buy orders, and inaccurately stated that
the firm did not collar market sell orders.

2019, the firm began allowing customers to place fractional buy and
• In December
10

sell orders. Although RHF stated in certain disclosures such as its customer
agreement that collars could be less than 5%, RHF failed in other disclosures such
as Help Center articles to describe its practice of applying collars substantially
less than 5%.

RHF cancelled customer market orders that failed to execute by the end of the trading
day because the price of the security remained outside the limit price. Millions of orders
entered during after hours trading did not fill when the markets for the securities opened
at prices more than 5% above the prices the customers would have seen when placing the
orders and remained outside the collar during the trading day.11 RHF also cancelled such
orders at the end of the trading day. When a customer's order failed to execute, RHF sent
a message to the affected customer informing him or her that the order had failed to fill.
From at least December 2014 to December 2021, RHF customers sent thousands of
inquiries to RHF asking why their orders did not execute. Some customers also cancelled
their orders after observing that their orders had failed to execute promptly.
From August 2016 to June 2021, over 8.7 million collared orders did not execute and
were canceled, either by RHF at the end of the trading day or by customers. Some of
these customers re-entered their market orders and received executions that were either
more or less favorable than the market prices at the time they initially entered their
orders. Customers paid more (for buys) or received less (for sells) than the market price
at the time they initially placed their orders, totaling at least $3.75 million.
As a result of the unclear and/or inaccurate disclosures described in this subsection, RHF
violated FINRA Rule 2210 and FINRA Rule 2010, both independently and by virtue of
violating FINRA Rule 2210.

9

From July 2016 to October 2021, the extended hours trading period was 9:00 am to 9:30 am ET, and 4:00 pm to
6:00 pm ET.
10

Fractional share orders allowed customers to trade fractions of whole shares. RHF allowed customers to input
these orders into its trading platform in dollar amounts (i.e., dollar-based orders) or in share amounts (i.e., sharebased orders).
11

The limit prices that RHF applied to these after-hours orders were subject to after-hours or premarket trade prices,
which can be volatile.

7

3.

RHF failed to establish and maintain a reasonably designed
supervisory system and failed to respond to red flags relating to its
practice of collaring.

From May 2014 to December 2021, RHF's supervisory system, including its written
supervisory procedures (WSPs), was not reasonably designed to achieve compliance with
RHF's obligations under FINRA Rules 2210 and 2010 to communicate to customers
accurate and fair and balanced information about its order handling practices. The firm's
supervisory system, including WSPs, was not reasonably designed to assess whether
changes to RHF's order handling practices necessitated updates to retail communications.
Nor did RHF establish a system, including procedures, that was reasonably designed to
review and revise retail communications if RHF became aware that existing
communications were potentially inaccurate or misleading.

Supervisors also failed to reasonably investigate and act when presented with red flags
that the firm's retail communications were inaccurate or incomplete. From December
2014 through December 2021, RHF received thousands of inquiries from customers who
asked why their market orders failed to execute. Nonetheless, RHF did not revise its
disclosures to accurately refleet the firm's collaring practice during that time.
RHF's supervisory system was not reasonably designed to achieve compliance with its
obligations under FINRA Rules 2210 and 2010, and therefore, RHF violated NASD Rule
3010 and FINRA Rules 3110 and 2010.

B.

Robinhood failed to establish and implement reasonable AML programs.

FINRA Rule 3310 requires member firms to "develop and implement a written antimoney laundering program reasonably designed to achieve and monitor . . . compliance
with the requirements of the Bank Secrecy Act (31 U.S.C. 5311, et seq.), and the
implementing regulations promulgated thereunder by the Department of the Treasury." A
violation of FINRA Rule 3310 also is a violation of FINRA Rule 2010.
In April 2002, FINRA issued Notice to Members 02-21, which advised that
''the obligation to develop and implement an AML compliance program is not a 'one
size-fits-all' requirement ... [and] each financial institution should . . . tailor its AML
program to fit its business." Notice to Members 02-21 also advised that "[t]o be effective,
[a firm's AML program] must reflect the firm's business model and customer base."
From January 2017 through November 2021, Robinhood failed to reasonably tailor its
AML compliance programs to address the risks posed by the firms' businesses.
1.

Robinhood failed to establish and implement policies and procedures
that could reasonably be expected to detect and cause the reporting of
suspicious transactions.

FINRA Rule 3310(a) requires that firms "[e]stablish and implement policies and
procedures that can be reasonably expected to detect and cause the reporting of
transactions required under 31 U.S.C. 5318(g) and the implementing regulations
thereunder." Pursuant to the implementing regulation, 31 C.F.R. § 1023.320, a
8

transaction must be reported if it is conducted or attempted by, at, or through a brokerdealer, it involves or aggregates funds or other assets of at least $5,000, and the brokerdealer knows, suspects, or has reason to suspect that the transaction (or a pattern of
transactions of which the transaction is a part): (i) involves funds derived from illegal
activity or is intended or conducted in order to hide or disguise funds or assets derived
from illegal activity as part of a plan to violate or evade any Federal law or regulation or
to avoid any transaction reporting requirement; (ii) is designed to evade any requirement
of the Bank Secrecy Act (BSA); (iii) has no business or apparent lawful purpose or is not
the sort in which the particular customer would normally be expected to engage, and the
broker-dealer knows of no reasonable explanation for the transaction after examining the
available facts; or (iv) involves use of the broker-dealer to facilitate criminal activity.
Notice to Members 02-21 reminded broker-dealers that their AML procedures must
address a number of areas, ineluding monitoring "trading and the flow of money into and
out of ... account[s]." Notice to Members 02-21 also reminded broker-dealers "to look
for signs of suspicious activity that suggest money laundering," and that if broker-dealers
detect such "red flags," to "perform additional due diligence." In May 2019, FINRA
published Regulatory Notice 19-18, which further reminded firms of their obligations to
monitor for and report suspicious activity, and provided additional red flags for firms to
consider incorporating into their AML programs. Regulatory Notice 19-18 further
provided that "[u]pon detection of red flags through monitoring, firms should consider
whether additional investigation, customer due diligence measures or a SAR [suspicious
activity report] filing may be warranted."
a.

Robinhood failed to reasonably monitor for suspicious trading and
money movements.

From January 2017 for RHF and November 2018 for RHS, through November 2021,
Robinhood's AML monitoring tools were not reasonably tailored to the firms' sizes and
businesses. During this period, the firms' trade monitoring tools were not reasonably
tailored to detect certain suspicious activity. For example, Robinhood's monitoring tools
to identify prearranged trades effectively excluded low-priced securities, even though
such securities may present a heightened risk for manipulation. Robinhood also lacked
automated tools or other reasonable means to identify certain types of suspicious
transactions, such as executions of out-of-the-money options contracts at prices away
from the market.
Robinhood's tools to detect suspicious money movements were similarly not reasonably
tailored. For example, until October 2020, Robinhood had inadequate controls in place to
detect whether Robinhood accounts were linked to third-party bank accounts or to
monitor transfers to those bank accounts as third-party transfers.12 During this period,
there were more than 19,000 instances in which Robinhood accounts were linked to thirdparty bank accounts and more than $300 million in transfers to those bank accounts. In

12

Third-party accounts refer to accounts held in the name of someone other than the customer. Similarly, third-party
transfers refer to transfers of funds or securities to an account in the name of a third-party.

9

addition, the firms' monitoring of non-originated ACH transactions13 did not consider
certain red flags of identity theft (e.g., deposits identified for persons whose names did
not match the name on the account).

b.

Robinhood failed to reasonably monitor for suspicious account
takeover events.

In December 2011, the U.S. Department of the Treasury's Financial Crimes Enforcement
Network (FinCEN) issued an Advisory "to assist financial institutions with identifying
account takeover activity and reporting the activity through the filing of Suspicious
Activity Reports." The December 2011 Advisory warned that criminals were using
several methods to "deliberately exploit a customer's account and, in many instances, to
gain seemingly legitimate access to another customer's account." It further explained:
Through ongoing monitoring, financial institutions may identify
inconsistencies with a customer's normal account activity that indicates
illicit intrusions into a customer 's account. Such irregularities might
include, but are not limited to, unusual ATM activity, clustered Automated
Clearing House (ACH) transactions in different geographic areas, sudden
wire transfers, or changes to customer and account profiles.
The December 2011 Advisory also provided guidance to financial institutions on
completing SARs on suspected account takeover activity, giving examples of account
takeovers involving various "delivery channels" including "computer intrusion,"
''telephone banking," and "social engineering." Subsequently, in October 2016, FinCEN
issued another Advisory to assist financial institutions in determining when account
takeover activity and other types of"cyber-events" should be reported. The October 2016
Advisory explained that: ''to determine [the] monetary amounts involved in the
transactions or attempted transactions, a financial institution should consider in aggregate
the funds and assets involved in or put at risk by the cyber-event."
Robinhood did not have reasonable systems to detect and cause the reporting of account
takeovers (ATOs) when required, even though ATOs were a major risk. For example,
although Robinhood's AML procedures identified certain "reviews" the firms were
supposed to undertake to identify potential ATOs-such as reviews related to deposit
reversals and inconsistencies in customers' account documentation-the firms did not
consistently conduct them. Before Robinhood introduced more systematic surveillance
for ATOs in December 2020, Robinhood typically learned of potential ATOs when
customers brought them to the firms' attention. In those instances, a separate team within
Robinhood was responsible for investigating the potential ATOs, but the firms' policies
and procedures for escalating and reviewing potentially suspicious activity did not
reasonably address the reporting considerations applicable to ATOs.

13

A non-originated ACH transaction is one in which a person makes an ACH transfer request to a third-party
institution, which then initiates an ACH deposit into or a withdrawal from an account at Robinhood.

10

c.

Robinhood failed to reasonably investigate suspicious activity.

From January 2017 through November 2021, Robinhood's policies and procedures
regarding investigating potentially suspicious activity did not reasonably address the risks
specific to the firms' business model. Until late 2019, the firms' AML policies listed the
titles of numerous daily "reviews" the firms purportedly conducted to monitor for such
risks, including potential identity theft, account takeovers, insider trading, manipulative
trading, and suspicious money movements. However, Robinhood did not have procedures
for conducting those reviews and they were conducted only on an ad hoc basis. In
addition, until mid-2019, Robinhood's AML policies failed to address the requirements
for filing SARs for cyber events such as ATOs.
In addition, Robinhood's AML programs lacked sufficient staff and resources to
reasonably and timely investigate the volume of alerted activity. For example, by January
2020, when the firms' customers were executing nearly one million trades per day, the
firms had only two full-time analysts and one supervisor assigned to review trade
surveillance alerts. At times in 2020, Robinhood's AML operations staff were taking
approximately six months on average after alerts were escalated to complete their AML
review. Robinhood also failed for several years to implement a case management system
for AML reviews, which, in 2019, the firms had identified as a critical priority.
Robinhood did not implement such a system until late 2021, and, as a result, prior to the
implementation of the system, the firms only partially reviewed certain AML alerts and
completely failed to review others. By August 2018, for example, the firms temporarily
stopped using a surveillance report intended to identify suspicious trading in low-priced
securities because the file had grown too large to open.

As a result of all the issues described above, Robinhood failed to detect a wide array of
suspicious activity including ATOs, potentially manipulative coordinated trading in
thinly traded stocks, potential insider trading via aggressive options trading, and
suspicious money movements such as small business loan disbursements from the
COVID 19 Paycheck Protection Program to non-business accounts. Therefore,
Robinhood violated FINRA Rules 3310(a) and 2010.
2.

RHF failed to establish and implement a reasonable customer
identification program.

FINRA Rule 3310(b) requires member firms to establish and implement policies,
procedures, and internal controls reasonably designed to achieve compliance with the
BSA and its implementing regulations. One of those regulations requires that firms
"establish, document, and maintain a written Customer Identification Program ...
appropriate for [the firm's] size and business," and that the program contain "risk-based
procedures for verifying the identity of each customer to the extent reasonable and
practicable."14

14

31 C.F.R. § 1023.220(a)(l}-(2).

11

In a prior AWC, FINRA found that RHF did not establish or maintain a customer
identification program that wa s appropriate for the firm's size and business from June 1,
2016, to November 10, 2018.15
Subsequently, between November 2018 and August 2020, RHF approved the opening of
approximately 14 million new customer accounts, relying on a largely automated
customer identification process that, due to its unreasonable design, sometimes approved
accounts where the information provided by the firm's CIP vendors either did not
reasonably verify a customer's identity or included evidence of possible identity fraud.
For example, during the relevant period, RHF' s automated customer identification
process considered certain discrepancies identified by the firm's primary identity
verification vendor to be "resolved" if the customer successfully linked a bank account to
his or her Robinhood account.
In addition, in early 2019, RHF revised its approval process by adding a second identity
verification vendor. RHF's logic for evaluating the data provided by the second vendor
caused the firm to approve new customer accounts in spite of material discrepancies and
red flags of identity theft, such as customer names that could not be verified or that did
not match the social security number provided.
In the third quarter of 2020, RHF commissioned a review of its CIP source code.
Through that process, the firm identified gaps in its CIP, including certain unreasonable
parameters for approving accounts in its automated customer identification process. RHF
made changes to its CIP in January 2021 and did not remediate all identified issues until
November 2021.
Throughout 2021, RHF conducted a CIP lookback and identified approximately two
million accounts that required further review to confirm customers' identities. Following
the lookback, the firm closed more than 100,000 accounts after concluding it could not
reasonably verify the customers' identities. RHF also identified, and self-disclosed to
FINRA, situations in which unknown actors opened several thousand accounts at the firm
using stolen identities, and then used those accounts to engage in patterns of suspicious
trading.
Therefore, RHF violated FINRA Rules 3310(b) and 2010.
C.

RHS failed to reasonably supervise the technology supporting its clearing
broker functions.

In 1998, the SEC's Division of Market Regulation issued Staff Legal Bulletin No. 8,
explaining that broker-dealers must have sufficient internal system capacity to operate
properly during periods of market stress:

15

AWC No. 2020066971201 (June 2021). In connection with the June 2021 AWC, RHF undertook to retain a thirdparty consultant to review areas covered by the A WC, including its CIP. The third-party consultant reviewed RHF's
CIP for the period August 2020 through August 2021 and made certain recommendations in December 2021, which
RHF subsequently implemented.

12

Because broker-dealers are becoming increasingly reliant on technology to
perform trading functions and to route customer orders to markets, these
problems could be more severe during future periods of high trading
volume. Broker-dealers therefore need to take steps to prevent their
operational systems from being overwhelmed by periodic spikes in systems
message traffic due to high volume. In particular, broker-dealers should not
merely have sufficient systems capacity to handle average-to-heavy loads.
Rather, broker-dealers should have the systems capacity to handle
exceptional loads of several times the average trading volume.
The SEC also "emphasize[d] to broker-dealers the importance of having adequate
capacity to handle high volume or high volatility trading days, and conducting capacity
planning on a regular basis."

RHS uses its proprietary clearing and settlement system, Sickle, to conduct its clearing
operations. Sickle is a "trading-critical" technology system without which RHS cannot
clear trades for RHF, including all customer trades. RHS relies on Sickle to, among other
things, process daily trading and money movement activity in a nightly process known as
"batch." RHS uses Sickle and the batch process to, for example: (1) compute RHF
customer positions and maintain its client and general ledgers and stock record pursuant
to Exchange Act Rule 17a-3; (2) generate the options spread file that is used to calculate
the firm's options clearing deposit; (3) process ACATS transfers pursuant to FINRA Rule
11870; (4) generate margin calls and assign margin-related trading restrictions pursuant
to FINRA Rule 4210; (5) segregate securities and know its securities available for
lending pursuant to Exchange Act Rule 15c3-3; and (6) generate reports or files used to
comply with various regulatory requirements . As such, RHS' s supervision of Sickle is
critical to the firm's ability to satisfy its regulatory obligations as a FINRA member firm
and SEC-registered broker-dealer.
From March 2020 through at least January 2021, despite red flags of processing delays
due to increased demand on Sickle, RHS failed to reasonably supervise Sickle, which, in
turn, at times impacted the firm's clearing operations and its ability to satisfy certain
regulatory obligations.
1.

RHS was on notice that the technology supporting its clearing
operations was nearing capacity limits.

To support RHS's clearing operations, Sickle uses a series of "runners" to process
various "events" (for example, orders, executions, or ACH transfers). Runners have
threshold levels of events per second that they can process. A runner will therefore
experience delay processing the activity, or "lag," if events are sent for processing at a
combined rate that exceeds the runner's processing capabilities. This is known as "runner
lag." Runner lag can occur during periods of high trading volume and market volatility. If
Sickle is experiencing sustained runner lag, RHS' s clearing operations, including the
nightly batch process, may be delayed, which may impact RHS' s ability to satisfy certain
regulatory obligations.

13

RHS was on notice by March 2020 that runner lag could delay RHS' s clearing operations
and the start of the overnight batch process. Starting that month, Sickle experienced
runner lag on numerous occasions. These instances of runner lag demonstrated that the
lag could delay RHS' s clearing operations and even grow long enough on a given day to
delay the start of the overnight batch process. Starting in May 2020, RHS took steps to
enhance Sickle, including its capacity, but by late 2020, RHS forecasted that unless
Sickle was reengineered, it could not handle more than 1.4 times then-current volume. In
early January 2021, internal projections raised the possibility that, under certain
circumstances, trading volume could double within the month. The following examples
of runner lag occurred throughout 2020 and January 2021:

• On six occasions in March 2020, during a period of extraordinary market

volatility, runner lag exceeded five hours. On March 9, 2020, runner lag still had
not caught up by the time RHS closed its trading day at 6:00 pm ET.

• On June 5, 2020, high event volume caused Sickle' s runner to lag for nearly two
hours.

• On September 2, 2020, runner lag persisted for five hours and 32 minutes, in part
due to increased trading activity surrounding two stock splits.

• On January 4, 2021, a spike in the price of Bitcoin and an associated influx of

trades caused runner lag of one hour and 19 minutes, which put Sickle in danger
of being unable to process all the events in a reasonable time for cash sweep16 and
ACATS operations.

• On January 11, 2021, RHS experienced runner lag caused by high volume,

causing ACATS and other clearing operations to be delayed such that they could
not begin until 2:30 pm ET.

• On January 25, 2021, an extreme surge in customer trading delayed the start of

the nightly batch process and nearly caused RHS to miss the 9:30 pm ET deadline
to submit the options spread file used to calculate RHS's options clearing deposit.
A senior director at RHS responsible for the firm's general clearing operations
viewed this as being directly caused by Robinhood's volume .

• As a result of runner lag, RHS began operations on one day in January 2021

without certain information indicating which securities were available for lending
pursuant to Exchange Act Rule 15c3-3.

• At various times in January 2021, as a result of runner lag, there were delays in

RHS's review and approval of ACATS requests pursuant to FINRA Rule 11870,

16

RHS's cash sweep program requires RHS to generate a file for external use prior to the start of the nightly batch
process. Like the batch process, the sweep file cannot be generated while Sickle is experiencing runner lag.

14

which resulted in, among other things, incorrect share movements, transfer delays,
and double sellouts.
2.

RHS failed to reasonably supervise the technology supporting the
firm's clearing operations.

From March 2020 through at least January 2021, RHS failed to reasonably supervise the
Sickle system, which was critical to its clearing operations and ability to satisfy
regulatory obligations. First, RHS did not capacity or load test the Sickle runner's ability
to handle increased trading volume. Second, RHS did not respond reasonably to red flags
of processing delays due to increased demand on Sickle, including repeated instances of
hours-long runner lag.
Therefore, RHS violated FINRA Rules 3110 and 2010.
D.

Robinhood failed to reasonably supervise associated persons to achieve
compliance with FINRA registration requirements.

FINRA Rule 1210, like its predecessor NASD Rule 1021, requires that all persons
engaged in the securities business of a member be registered with FINRA in the
appropriate capacity as specified in FINRA Rule 1220 (Registration Categories).17 Rule
1210 also specifies that " [s]uch person shall no t be qualified to function in any registered
capacity other than that for which the person is registered, unless otherwise stated in the
rules." A violation ofNASD Rule 1021 or FINRA Rule 1210 also is a violation of
FINRA Rule 2010.
FINRA Rule 1220(a)(l) defines a "principal" as one who is "actively engaged in the
management of the member's investment banking or securities business, such as
supervision, solicitation, conduct of business in securities or the training of persons
associated with a member for any of these functions." This includes "management of, and
the implementation of corporate policies related to, such business" as well as "managerial
decision-making authority with respect to the member's ... securities business."
FINRA Rule 1220(b)(3) defines an "Operations Professional" as a "covered person"
(meaning senior management and persons designated as supervisors or responsible for
approving work) responsible for a "covered function" (including client onboarding,
financial controls, and defining and approving business requirements for sales and trading
systems or for business security requirements and policies for information technology).
Regulatory Notice 11-33 provides that "Member firms must determine, based on a
person's activities and responsibilities, whether such person would be considered a
covered person and subject to the requirements for Operations Professionals." Regulatory
Notice 11-33 further provides that any person who meets the definition of a covered
person and engages in one or more covered functions "on behalf of a member firm

17

FINRA Rule 1210 superseded NASD Rule 1021 on October 1, 2018.

15

(regardless of their employing entity, e.g., a member firm, an affiliate or a third-party
service provider) must register as an Operations Professional."
From January 2016 through July 2021, Robinhood's WSPs and supervisory systems for
registration were not reasonably designed. Prior to July 2021, Robinhood's supervisory
system was not reasonably designed to ensure that decisions were reviewed and approved
by appropriately licensed supervisors. Its WSPs failed to identify appropriately licensed
principals or Operations Professionals to supervise aspects of its business. The WSPs also
failed to describe how the firms should assess whether certain functions performed by the
firms' parent company, including roles in engineering, product, and information security,
required supervision by licensed principals or Operations Professionals.
Further, Robinhood did not have reasonable systems for identifying employees whose job
function required registration as a Principal or Operations Professional. Prior to 2018,
Robinhood solely relied on reviews of new hires by the firms' chief compliance officer to
identify employees requiring registration. Beginning in January 2018, Robinhood relied
on department managers to approve employees who sought to obtain FINRA
registrations. But the firms did not have any system to systematically assess whether
employees' job functions require d registration, and the firms failed to provide guidance
about how to make that determination.
As a result of these deficiencies, several employees at Robinhood had job responsibilities
for which they did not have the required FINRA registrations during the relevant period.
Therefore, Robinhood violated NASD Rule 1021, and FINRA Rules 1210, 3110, and
2010.
E.

Robinhood failed to reasonably supervise trading in associated persons'
accounts.

FINRA Rule 3110(d)(1) requires that a firm's supervisory procedures include:
a process for the review of securities transactions that are reasonably
designed to identify trades that may violate the provisions of the Exchange
Act, the rules thereunder, or FINRA rules prohibiting insider trading and
manipulative and deceptive device[s] that are effected for the . . . accounts
introduced and carried by the member in which a person associated with the
member has a beneficial interest or the authority to make investment
decisions; [and] accounts of a person associated with the member that are
disclosed to the member pursuant to FINRA Rule 3210[.]
FINRA Rule 3210 requires associated persons to obtain the prior written consent of their
employer firm before opening or establishing an account at another member.
Until January 2022, Robinhood did not systematically identify non-registered employees
and contractors who should be treated as associated persons based on their job duties.
From at least October 2018 until December 2019, Robinhood limited its review of
employees' accounts held at other broker-dealers to accounts held by its registered
16

representatives and not its associated persons. As a result, Robinhood excluded over 200
associated, non-registered persons from outside account reviews. Moreover, during this
time, Robinhood conducted a manual, daily review of all full-time employees' accounts
that were maintained at Robinhood, but excluded approximately 200 contractors who
were associated persons based on their job duties.
From October 2018 until December 2019, Robinhood's reviews of employees' brokerage
accounts were also unreasonable. First, Robinhood relied on employees to self-disclose
their Robinhood accounts, which they were instructed to do during onboarding, or upon
account opening. Subsequent to onboarding or account opening, Robinhood did not take
steps to identify undisclosed accounts and therefore failed to identify a significant
number of employee accounts maintained at Robinhood. Second, Robinhood at times
failed to receive the paper statements on which the firms relied to conduct periodic
outside brokerage account reviews. Third, Robinhood failed to document that the firms
conducted periodic outside account reviews from May 2018 through December 2019 and
daily Robinhood account reviews from May 2018 until June 2019.
In January 2020, Robinhood implemented an automated system to review the trading
activity of registered representatives and RHF customer service personnel. The
automated system, however, excluded other Robinhood employees and contractors who
qualified as associated persons based on their job duties. Between January 2020 and
January 2022, Robinhood's reviews excluded outside brokerage accounts held by over
1,800 individuals who qualified as non-registered associated persons. Beginning in
August 2021 and continuing through January 2022, Robinhood expanded the scope of the
automated system to cover additional categories of associated persons based on job
duties.
Moreover, from January 2020 until May 2021, the data feed for outside accounts held at a
large online broker-dealer was improperly configured by Robinhood's automated system,
so it failed to include these accounts as part of the firms' automated reviews until the
issue was identified in May 2021. As a result, Robinhood excluded up to 4,320 accounts
from the firms' contemporaneous automated review. 18
Therefore, from at least October 2018 until January 2022, Robinhood failed to review
brokerage accounts held by the associated persons described above and conducted
unreasonable reviews of other brokerage accounts.
F.

RHF failed to reasonably supervise or retain social media communications
promoting the firm.

As described above, FINRA Rule 2210(d)(1) sets forth content standards that apply to all
member communications, including retail communications. FINRA Rule 2210(a)(5)
defines retail communication as any written (including electronic) communication that is

18

The large majority of the 4,320 excluded accounts related to employee stock plans.

17

distributed or made available to more than 25 retail investors within any 30 calendar-day
period.
FINRA Rule 2210(b)(1)(A) requires that an appropriately qualified registered principal of
a member firm approve each retail communication before the earlier of its use or filing
with FINRA's Advertising Regulation Department. 19
In addition, the Exchange Act, its accompanying rules, and FINRA rules require firms to
preserve certain records related to retail communications. Exchange Act Section 17(a)(1)
requires registered broker-dealers to make and keep for prescribed periods such records,
furnish such copies thereof, and make and disseminate such reports as the Commission
deems "necessary or appropriate in the public interest, for the protection of investors or
otherwise in furtheranee of the purposes of' the Exchange Act. Exchange Act Rule
17a-4(b)(4) requires every registered broker-dealer to preserve for at least three years "all
communications which are subject to rules of a self-regulatory organization of which the
member, broker or dealer is a member regarding communications with the public."
FINRA Rule 2210(b)(4)(A) requires that member firms maintain all retail
communications for the period prescribed under the Exchange Act and maintain a record
of, among other things: (1) the dates of first and last use of such communication; and
(2) the name of any registered principal who approved the communication and the date
that approval was given. FINRA Rule 4511 requires member firms to "preserve books
and records as required under the FINRA rules, the Exchange Act and the applicable
Exchange Act rules."
A violation of Exchange Act Section 17(a), Exchange Act Rule 17a-4, and FINRA Rule
4511 is also a violation of FINRA Rule 2010.
In Regulatory Notices 10-06 and 17-18, FINRA stated that third parties' social media
posts would constitute retail communications subject to FINRA Rule 2210 if a member
firm either (1) paid for or was involved in the preparation of the content prior to posting
(which the Notices referred to as "entanglement") or (2) explicitly or implicitly endorsed
or approved the content (which the Notices referred to as "adoption"). Regulatory Notice
17-18 also stated that firms should clearly identify as advertisements any
communications that take the form of comments or posts by influencers and include the
firm's name as well as any other information required for compliance with FINRA Rule
2210.
From November 2019 through March 2023, RHF paid certain influencers who promoted
the firm in social media communications an amount for every new account that was
opened and funded by the customer using a unique link provided by RHF. RHF did not
limit the compensation these influencers could earn, and the posts that promoted the firm
were widely distributed. During this period, customers opened at least 25,000 new
19

Rule 2210(b)(1)(D)(ii) excepts from this requirement retail communications posted in an online interactive
electronic forum provided that the member supervises and reviews such communications in the same manner as
required for supervising and reviewing correspondence pursuant to FINRA Rule 3110(b) and FINRA Rule 3110
Supplemental Material .06 through .09.

18

accounts using the referral links provided by RHF, resulting in the firm paying
approximately 75 influencers at least $2.7 million.
Influencers' posts promoting RHF were retail communications of RHF subject to FINRA
Rule 2210. RHF provided influencers with guidanee regarding "requirements applicable
to public-facing communications," including "potential terms and phrases" that
influencers should "carefully consider[] and potentially avoid[], when communicating
with the public," including "always" and "never." RHF's standard agreement with
influencers provided that all content that was produced and publicly displayed in
connection with the agreement and that identified Robinhood or its services must be
reviewed and pre-approved. Nonetheless, during the relevant period, the firm did not
have a registered principal review and approve influencers' static content (such as static
videos) prior to their publication, nor did it supervise and review communications posted
in an online interactive electronic forum in the same manner as required for supervising
and reviewing correspondence, pursuant to FINRA Rule 3110(b) and FINRA Rule 3110
Supplemental Material .06 through .09. In addition, RHF did not maintain records of
communications posted by influencers that promoted the firm, or the dates they were
used.

Instead, RHF utilized a third-party vendor to monitor the content of influencers' posts
promoting the firm after they were published, which did not comport with FINRA Rule
221 0(b)' s requirement that the firm review and approve static content prior to
publication. In certain circumstances, the vendor required influencers to make edits to
their social media posts after they were already published. However, that review failed to
identify that, during the relevant period, influencers published social media posts about
the firm's products and services that included statements that were misleading,
exaggerated, promissory, and not fair and balanced. For example, one influencer, in a
video concerning purportedly high dividend earning stocks that he posted on a social
media platform, stated, " [the] dividend income is just going to continue increasing and
increasing and increasing to where eventually it will be able to pay all of your costs so
you could live financially free." Influencers also posted communications claiming that
RHF was completely free without disclosing that other fees may apply, including
regulatory and Robinhood Gold membership fees.20 For example, an influencer posted
multiple times that RHF was free, including stating that it was "100% free. Not even
kidding." Finally, many influencers' social media posts promoting the firm failed to
clearly identify the communications as paid advertisements.
During the relevant period, RHF did not establish, maintain, or enforce a system,
including WSPs, reasonably designed to supervise retail communications promoting the
firm posted by influencers. RHF did not require the firm to review or approve these
influencers' static posts prior to posting, and in fact, the firm did not prereview or
preapprove such posts. Moreover, RHF did not have a system, including WSPs,
reasonably designed to supervise and review retail communications posted in an online
interactive electronic forum in the same manner as required for supervising and
20

In Regulatory Notice 13-23, FINRA reminded firms that claiming or implying that accounts are "free" or ''no fee"
would generally be inconsistent with FINRA Rule 2210.

19

reviewing correspondence pursuant to FINRA Rule 3110(b) and FINRA Rule 3110
Supplemental Material .06 through .09. The firm also did not reasonably supervise its
retail communications concerning the firm posted by these influencers for compliance
with FINRA Rule 2210(d)(1). Finally, the firm did not have a supervisory system
reasonably designed to preserve records of these influencers' social media posts or their
dates of use, as required by Exchange Act Section 17(a), Exchange Act Rule 17a-4, and
FINRA Rules 2210(b)(4) and 4511. In February 2022, RHF revised its system for
supervising retail communications posted by these influencers, and in March 2023, RHF
ended its influencer program as described above.
Therefore, RHF violated Exchange Act Section 17(a), Exchange Act Rule 17a-4, and
FINRA Rules 2210, 4511, 3110, and 2010.
G.

RHS improperly rejected customer requests to transfer their entire accounts
via the ACATS process.

Transfers of customer securities or a customer's entire account fro m one brokerage firm
to another primarily occur through the Automated Customer Account Transfer Service
(ACATS), which is an electronic system to transfer assets or accounts from one brokerdealer to another.
FINRA Rule 11870(a)(1) provides:
When a customer whose securities account is carried by a member (the
"carrying member") wishes to transfer securities account assets, in whole
or in specifically designated part, to another member (the "receiving
member") and gives authorized instructions to the receiving member, both
members must expedite and coordinate activities with respect to the
transfer.
FINRA Rule 11870(d) enumerates the limited exceptions that a firm may take to a
customer's transfer request, such as discrepancies between the transfer instructions and
the firm's records, duplicate requests, or where the account has no transferrable assets. A
violation of FINRA Rule 11870 is also a violation of FINRA Rule 2010.
Between November 2018, when the firm began processing customer ACATS requests,
and July 2022, RHS improperly rejected requests by RHF customers seeking to transfer
their entire accounts to another broker-dealer when one or more of the following
conditions existed at the time of the transfer request:
•

Until March 2020, RHS rejected a customer's request to transfer all their assets if
the customer's brokerage account had unsettled transactions (e.g., if a security had
been sold but remained in the customer's account until the trade settled);

•

Until March 2021, RHS rejected a customer's request to transfer all their assets
and close their brokerage account if the customer also maintained a separate

20

account at its affiliate Robinhood Crypto, LLC (RHC), and had a crypto asset
balance;21
•

Until July 2022, RHS rejected a customer's request to transfer all of their assets if
the customer's brokerage account held options that would expire within five days.

FINRA Rule 11870, however, does not permit RHS to reject a customer's ACATS
request due to the presence of unsettled transactions, crypto asset holdings, or expiring
options. In total, between November 2018 and July 2022, RHS improperly rejected
approximately 116,000 requests to transfer their accounts in full via ACATS for these
reasons.
Between November 2018 and August 2020, RHS' s supervisory system for ACATS was
limited to reviewing samples of accepted ACATS transfer instructions to verify that the
transfer was completed. During this period, the firm did not review exceptions to
customer outgoing ACATS transfer instructions for compliance with FINRA Rule 11870.

In September 2020, RHS instituted a review of rejected ACATS requests to confirm that
reasons for rejections were valid. However, in practice, the firm continued to reject
ACATS requests due to the presence of crypto asset holdings or expiring options until
July 2022.
Therefore, RHS violated FINRA Rules 11870, 3110, and 2010.
H.

RHF failed to reasonably supervise delivery of account statements, trade
confirmations, and the firm's Form CRS.

Exchange Act Rule 10b-10, promulgated under Section 10(b) of the Exchange Act,
requires broker-dealers that effect securities transactions for customers to provide
customers a confirmation, at or before completion of each transaction, disclosing certain
basic terms of the transaction, such as the identity, price, number of shares of the security
bought or sold, and the execution capacity of the broker-dealer. FINRA Rule 2232(a)
requires members, at or before the completion of any transaction in any security effected
for or with an account of a customer, to provide such customer with written
confirmations that conform with the requirements of Exchange Act Rule 10b-10.
Trade confirmations protect investors who buy or sell securities through broker-dealers
by, among other things, alerting them to potential conflicts of interest with their brokerdealers and providing them the means to verify the terms of their transactions and
evaluate transaction costs and the quality of their broker-dealers' executions.

21

At that time, customers could only trade or hold crypto assets in an RHC account. RHC is not a broker-dealer or a
member of FINRA. Such crypto assets would have been inaccessible to the customer if the brokerage account were
closed.

21

FINRA Rule 2231, like its predecessor NASD Rule 2340, requires each general securities
member firm to send a statement of account to each customer that contains certain
specific information.22
On June 5, 2019, the SEC adopted Form CRS and rules creating new requirementswhich include requirements to prepare and deliver the Form CRS-for SEC-registered
broker-dealers offering services to a retail investor. The compliance date for Form CRS
was June 30, 2020.
Form CRS provides customers with information about the types of services the firm
offers; the fees, costs, conflicts of interest, and required standard of conduct associated
with those services; whether the firm and its investment professionals have reportable
legal or disciplinary history; and how to get more information about the firm.
Form CRS also includes required "conversation starters" to help begin a discussion with
a broker-dealer about the relationship, including their services, fees, costs, conflicts, and
disciplinary information.
Exchange Act Rule 17a-14-titled "Form CRS , for preparation, filing and delivery of
Form CRS"-requires broker-dealers offering services to a retail investor to prepare a
Form CRS in accordance with the instructions in Form CRS, and to comply with
requirements related to filing, amending, delivering, and posting the Form CRS to the
firm's public website.
From July 2018 through September 2023, RHF failed to establish, maintain, and enforce
a supervisory system, including WSPs, reasonably designed to achieve compliance with
its obligations under the Exchange Act and FINRA Rules to deliver the above-described
required account documents. While RHF delivered required documents by mail and
email, the firm had inaccurate mailing and email addresses for certain customers. The
firm received thousands of return-to-sender notifications for undelivered mail and
bounce-back notifications for undelivered email, which should have alerted the firm that
it may not be meeting its delivery obligations. RHF, however, took no steps until
February 2022 to update its supervisory system, including its WSPs, to address delivery
of required account documents to customers. In February 2022, the firm began to take
steps to address specific delivery failures, such as sending mobile application messages
and paper disclosures to customers for whom the firm received an email bounce-back for
certain mailings. Moreover, between February 2022 and September 2023, RHF
implemented new supervisory policies and procedures to address these issues. In October
2023, RHF disclosed to FINRA that it had failed to transmit the above-described
documents to certain customers by mail and email.
Therefore, RHF violated FINRA Rules 3110 and 2010.

22

FINRA Rule 2231 superseded NASD Rule 2340 on May 8, 2019.

22

I.

Robinhood failed to reasonably supervise the firms' maintenance and
reporting of accurate and complete trade, order, and position data.
1.

RHS submitted tens of thousands of inaccurate blue sheets and failed
to reasonably supervise its blue sheet submissions.
a.

RHS submitted more than 17,200 inaccurate or incomplete blue
sheets to FINRA, impacting more than 216.4 million transactions.

FINRA rules require that member firms submit trade data in an automated format
(commonly known as "blue sheets") when requested by FINRA and other regulators.
Regulators request blue sheets to assist them in investigating potential trading violations,
including, for example, market manipulation and insider trading. Blue sheets provide
regulators with critical information about transactions, including the name of the account
owner, the nature of the transaction (whether it was a purchase, sale, or short sale), and
the price at which the transaction occurred. It is therefore an essential and fundamental
obligation of each member firm to provide complete, accurate, and timely blue sheets.
FINRA Rules 8211 and 8213 require that member firms submit trade data, as prescribed
in FINRA Rule 8211, to FINRA upon request. A violation of FINRA Rules 8211 or 8213
also constitutes a violation of FINRA Rule 2010.
From at least November 2018 through April 2024, RHS submitted more than 17,200 blue
sheets to FINRA that misreported data for more than 216.4 million transactions as a
result of 11 different types of errors.23 For some trades, RHS supplied incorrect or
incomplete information about transactions on its blue sheets. RHS also omitted certain
transactions from blue sheet responses and included certain duplicate trades:
•

Used incorrect codes ("HOOD" instead of "CRFN") to identify itself as the
primary party on more than 216.4 million transactions;

•

Used incorrect codes ("RHS") as the contra party to transactions that RHS
executed for customer accounts introduced to it by RHF instead of using RHS' s
MPID, CRD, or OCC clearing number in almost 81.7 million transactions;

• Omitted more than 35.6 million contra transactions executed by RHS in its own
accounts to facilitate customer trading;

• Incorrectly reported more than 38.1 million fractional share transactions as

proprietary transactions when the firm handled them on a riskless principal basis;

23

Many of the same issues impacted the blue sheets that RHS submitted to the SEC. On January 13, 2025, the SEC
announced a settlement with RHS involving, among other violations, inaccurate blue sheet submissions to the SEC.

23

• Incorrectly identified the exchange on which more than 10.2 million option

transactions were executed, and also incorrectly identified the contra party on
those transactions;

• Incorrectly reported execution times for more than 40.9 million transactions; and
• Reported more than 3.6 million duplicate transactions.
Therefore, RHS violated FINRA Rules 8211, 8213, and 2010.
b.

RHS failed to reasonably supervise the submission of blue sheets.

From at least November 2018 through July 2022, RHS' s supervisory system, including
its WSPs, was not reasonably designed to achieve compliance with FINRA Rules 8211
and 8213 relating to blue sheets. Before September 2021, RHS reviewed a small sample
of blue sheet submissions and transactions in an attempt to verify that they were timely
submitted and in the correct format. The review, however, included only five transactions
per week, and only included a portion of submitted data fields. Moreover, this review was
not described in the firm's WSPs, and the WSPs did not provide guidance about the steps
the firm should take to verify that blue sheet submissions were accurate. In September
2021, RHS instituted new WSPs describing the firm 's process for verifying that the firm
timely submitted blue sheets in the correct format. However, RHS still lacked a system,
including WSPs, reasonably designed to verify the accuracy of the firm's blue sheet
submissions; rather, the firm continued to review only an unreasonably small sample of
transactions (five transactions per week, and only a limited number of data fields) to
check for accuracy.
Therefore, RHS violated FINRA Rule 3110 and 2010.
2.

RHS failed to report, or inaccurately reported, hundreds of millions
of fractional share transactions.
a.

RHS failed to report, or inaccurately reported, to trade reporting
facilities hundreds of millions of fractional share trades.

In December 2019, RHF began offering fractional share trading to non-employee
customers, and by March 2021, more than 60% of Robinhood customers had traded
fractional shares.
RHS erroneously believed that it did not have trade reporting obligations for principal
and riskless principal fractional share orders until September 2020, when FINRA notified
the firm.24 As a result, the firm committed two types of reporting violations: trade
reporting violations and CAT reporting violations.

24

A principal transaction is a transaction where a broker-dealer participates in a trade by buying or selling a security
for its own account. A riskless principal transaction is a transaction in which a broker-dealer, after having received

24

FINRA Rules 6380A and 6622 set forth requirements for reporting transactions in
national market system (NMS) stocks to the FINRA/NASDAQ Trade Reporting Facility
(FN TRF), and OTC equity securities to the Over-the-Counter (OTC) Reporting Facility
(ORF) (collectively, the TRFs), respectively. Rules 6380A(b) and 6622(b) provide that
(1) in transactions between two FINRA members, the executing party shall report the
trade; and (2) in transactions between a FINRA member and a non-member or customer,
the member shall report the trade. Trades involving fractional shares, such as a trade for
less than one share or a trade for 10.5 shares, are subject to FINRA's trade reporting
rules.
FINRA Rules 6380A and 6622 require the submission of one of two types of transaction
reports-a tape report and a non-tape report--depending upon the purpose of the report.
A tape report is a trade report that is submitted to a TRF and reported to and publicly
disseminated by the exclusive Securities Information Processor (SIP). Non-tape reports
include regulatory reports submitted to FINRA for regulatory purposes only that are not
publicly disseminated.
FINRA Rules 6380A(d)(3) and 6622(d)(3) set forth the requirements for reporting the
member's capacity for principal and riskless principal transactions. Members must report
principal transactions with a customer by submitting a tape report with a principal
capacity indicator. Trades executed in a principal capacity are also subject to a regulatory
transaction fee.
Members may report to a TRF riskless principal transactions by submitting either (1) a
tape report with a riskless principal capacity indicator, or (2) a tape report with a capacity
of principal to reflect the initial leg of the transaction, and a non-tape report with a
riskless principal capacity indicator to reflect the offsetting riskless leg of the transaction.
For such trades, the member executing the trade in a riskless principal capacity is
obligated to ensure its capacity is accurately reported.25
FINRA Rules 7230A(d) and 7330(d) set forth additional requirements regarding
information that must be reported for each transaction reported to the FN TRF or the
ORF, respectively. Among other things, members must report (1) the unit price,
excluding commissions, mark-ups or mark-downs; (2) the time of execution; and (3) the
contra side executing broker.
FINRA Rules 6182 and 6624 provide that "[p]ursuant to appli cable trade reporting rules,
members must indicate on trade reports submitted to FINRA whether a transaction is a
short sale transaction" when reporting to the FN TRF or the ORF, respectively. FINRA
Rules 7230A(d)(6) and 7330(d)(6) also provide that members must report to the FN TRF
or the ORF "where applicable, a symbol indicating that the transaction is a sell short or
an order to buy (sell) a security, purchases (sells) the security as principal and satisfies the original order by selling
(buying) as principal at the same price (the offsetting ''riskless" leg). See Trade Reporting Frequently Asked
Questions, FAQ 302.1, https://www.finra.org/filing-reporting/market-transparency-reporting/trade-reporting-faq.
25

See Trade Reporting Frequently Asked Questions, FAQ 302.9, https://www.finra.org/filing-reporting/markettransparency-reporting/trade-reporting-faq.

25

sell short exempt trade from the reporting member perspective or contra side
perspective." A violation ofFINRA's trade reporting rules is also a violation of FINRA
Rule 2010.
From December 2019 to February 2021, RHS failed to tape report to the FN TRF over
128 million fractional share trades it executed on a principal basis.26 In May 2020, RHS
began offering customers OTC fractional and non-fractional share trading in a select
number of American Depositary Receipts (ADR).27 From that time until August 2021, the
firm failed to report to the ORF approximately 760,000 fractional trades executed on a
principal basis. In addition, since March 2020, RHF allowed customers to place dollarbased (which frequently involved fractional shares) recurring orders for equity securities.
From March 2020 until November 2022, RHS also failed to report over 270,000
fractional share trades executed on a principal basis relating to recurring investments.
From December 2019 through June 2021, in 320 million instances, RHS failed to submit
non-tape reports correcting its capacity on tape reports submitted by the executing broker
that misidentified RHS' s capacity as principal. In addition, from May 2020 to August
2021, the firm failed to submit over one million non-tape trade reports to the ORF for
fractional share trades.
Even after RHS began reporting fractional share trades in January 2021, it submitted over
160 million inaccurate trade reports. Specifically, from January 2021 through July 2021,
RHS reported approximately 87.5 million transactions with a price-override indicator that
it incorrectly appended due to a coding error.28 Due to misunderstandings regarding the
information it was required to report, from January 2021 through July 2021, RHS
reported approximately 67.7 million transactions without identifying RHF as the contra
party. In addition, from January 2021 through November 2023, RHS reported over six
million transactions with inaccurate execution times.
Furthermore, in certain circumstances, to facilitate fractional share trades, RHS incurred
intra-day net short positions. RHS was unaware that those fractional trades constituted
short sales until March 2022. As a result, from January 2021, when it first began
reporting trades, through April 2023, RHS reported tens of millions of short sale
transactions to the TRFs without the required short sale indicator.
Therefore, RHS violated FINRA Rules 6182, 6380A, 6622, 6624, 7230A, 7330, and
2010.

26

In January 2021, RHS began TRF reporting some fractional share trades executed on a principal basis, and by
February 23, 2021, the firm was reporting all principal trades.
27

RHS's customers could conduct fractional share trading in approximately 275 ADRs.

28

A TRF will reject a trade report with a price that falls outside FINRA-established price validation parameters. If
the price on the rejected trade report is correct, the reporting member can resubmit the trade report with a ''price
override indicator" to avoid further rejection. Trade Reporting Notice (Sept. 2010),
https://www.finra.org/sites/default/files/NoticeDocument/p122104.pdf.

26

b.

RHS failed to report, or inaccurately reported, to the CAT Central
Repository hundreds of millions of reportable events.

The SEC adopted Rule 613 under the Exchange Act to create the CAT, a consolidated
audit trail that would substantially enhance the ability of the self-regulatory organizations
and the SEC to oversee the national securities markets and fulfill their responsibilities
under the federal securities laws. In November 2016, the SEC approved a CAT national
market system (NMS) Plan. In March 2017, the SEC approved FINRA's proposal to
adopt FINRA Rule 6800 Series to implement the CAT NMS Plan.
Beginning June 22, 2020, large industry members that originated or received an order
involving NMS or OTC equity securities were required to report data to the CAT Central
Repository and comply with Rule 613 of Exchange Act Regulation NMS and the FINRA
Rule 6800 series. All customer and proprietary trading activity, including market-making
activity, is subject to CAT reporting. There are no exclusions or exemptions of any kind
for type of firm or type of trading activity.
CAT data is an integral part ofFINRA's automated market surveillance program. FINRA
uses CAT data to conduct cross-market surveillance in support ofFINRA's and
registered equities and options exchanges' statutory obligations. Inaccurate, incomplete,
or untimely transaction and order reporting can negatively affect the regulatory audit trail
and the quality ofFINRA's surveillance patterns as well as FINRA's ability to accurately
reconstruct market events.

FINRA Rule 6830(a) requires each member to record and electronically report to the
CAT Central Repository specific details for each order and each reportable event, as
applicable. Reportable event is defined to include, but is not limited to, the original
receipt or origination, modification, cancellation, routing, execution (in whole or in part)
and allocation of an order, and receipt of a routed order. FINRA Rule 6893(a) requires
members to "record and report data to the Central Repository as required by this Rule
Series in a manner that ensures the timeliness, accuracy, integrity and completeness of
such data." A violation of FINRA Rules 6830 and 6893 also is a violation of FINRA
Rule 2010.
RHS failed to report, or inaccurately reported, hundreds of millions of reportable events,
primarily concerning fractional share transactions. During the period June 22, 2020,
through February 23, 2021, RHS:

• Improperly applied a reporting exception code to trade events reported for

approximately 115 million fractional share trades that it executed in a principal
capacity to the CAT Central Repository in violation of FINRA Rule
6830(a)(2)(F);

• Inaccurately reported to the CAT Central Repository approximately 101 million

fractional share transactions that it executed in a riskless principal capacity by
submitting trade events instead of order fulfillment events, as required by FINRA
Rule 6830(a)(2)(F);
27

• Inaccurately reported approximately 93 million new order events to the CAT

Central Repository using the account holder type "I" (for individual accounts)
rather than "P" (for proprietary accounts); and

• Failed to report to the CAT Central Repository approximately 23 million new
order events for representative orders related to riskless principal transactions
involving fractional shares, as required by FINRA Rule 6830(a)(1)(A).

Moreover, from June 22, 2020, through November 23, 2023, RHS reported to the CAT
Central Repository over 487 million reportable events with inaccurate execution times, in
violation of FINRA Rule 6830(a)(1)(E)(iii). Specifically, for fractional trades that were
aggregated for execution in a riskless principal capacity, RHS reported the execution time
of the trade executed with the street rather than the execution time of the riskless
principal transaction between RHS and the customer. During this period, RHS also failed
to report, or inaccurately reported, to the CAT Central Repository millions of reportable
events. For example, RHS inaccurately reported short sales as long sales, and failed to
report the receipt of customer orders from RHF related to recurring customer
investments.29
Therefore, RHS violated FINRA Rules 6830, 6893, and 2010.
c.

RHS failed to establish supervisory systems applicable to reporting
for its fractional share program that were reasonably designed to
achieve compliance with FINRA rules.

From the inception of RHS' s fractional share business in December 2019 until April
2021, the firm's WSPs erroneously indicated that the firm had no obligation to report
fractional share trades to the TRFs. In May 2021, RHS established a supervisory system,
including WSPs, regarding compliance with FINRA's trade reporting rules applicable to
fractional share trading. However, that system failed to require reasonable supervisory
reviews of the accuracy of reports to the TRFs concerning execution times, capacity,
short sales, the identity of contra parties, and the use of price-override indicators.

RHS also did not establish a supervisory system or procedures relating to CAT reporting
until August 2020, after the June 22, 2020, effective date for CAT reporting. Once
implemented, RHS' s supervisory system, including written procedures, was not
reasonably designed to achieve compliance with FINRA rules concerning CAT reporting.
In Regulatory Notice 20-31, FINRA provided that "reasonably designed written
supervisory procedures should address the CAT Rules and . . . should incorporate
frequent reviews by the firm of the data posted on the CAT Reporter Portal." FINRA
further stated:
Members' written supervisory procedures also must be reasonably designed
to ensure that the data reported by them or on their behalf is transmitted in
29

A recurring investment occurs when a customer has instructed RHF to automatically purchase a specified dollar
amount of a security on a recurring basis, e.g., weekly.

28

a timely fashion and that it is complete and accurate. Among other things,
firms should review this data to verify that: (1) the data is sent to CAT by
0800 (8:00 a.m. Eastern Time) the following Trading Day; (2) the data is
complete with no missing events; and (3) the data is accurate with all of the
appropriate data fields reported correctly. It will not be sufficient for firms
to only review rejected data.
At various times between August 2020 and November 2023, RHS failed to conduct
reasonable supervisory reviews concerning the accuracy of reports to the CAT Central
Repository with respect to, among others, the use of reporting exception codes, the
accuracy of reported account holder types for proprietary and customer orders, as well as
execution times, capacity, and short sales.
Therefore, RHS violated FINRA Rules 3110 and 2010.
3.

RHF mismarked options orders for millions of contracts with an
inaccurate origin code.
a.

RHF mismarked millions of options orders.

Exchange Act Rule 17a-3(a)(6)(i) requires broker-dealers to make and keep a
memorandum of each brokerage order that contains the terms and conditions of the order.
Inherent in the obligation to make and preserve books and records is the requirement that
they be accurate. Because execution priority and fees depend on the origin code of an
order, origin codes constitute a term and condition of the order.
A violation of Exchange Act Rule 17a-3 also constitutes a violation of FINRA Rule
2010.
Orders routed to options exchanges must be marked with an origin code that reflects the
type of market participant from whom the order originated. A Professional Customer
origin code must be used for a person or entity that is not a securities broker or dealer and
that enters a daily average of more than 390 orders in a month for its own beneficial
account(s). Firms must perform quarterly reviews to determine which customers met the
Professional Customer criteria during any month of the preceding quarter and must mark
orders for those customers with Professional Customer origin codes for the entirety of the
next quarter.
Beginning in July 2019, RHF conducted reviews of trading activity to determine if any of
its customers met the Professional Customer criteria. The firm, however, incorrectly
calculated each customer's average daily order volume for a given month by dividing the
customer's total order volume by the number of calendar days rather than trading days.
This method inadvertently undercounted the number of customers that met the
Professional Customer criteria. As a result, RHF did not identify any accounts that met
the Professional Customer criteria until April 2020, despite having customers whose
orders should have been marked as Professional Customers as of the third quarter of
2019. RHF revised its calculation methodology in November 2021 to reference trading
29

days rather than calendar days, and the firm completed its redesignation of relevant
customer accounts as Professional Customers in February 2022.
Further, even after RHF began identifying customers that met the Professional Customer
criteria in April 2020, the firm's order management system was not configured to route
orders from accounts with Professional Customer origin codes. Instead, the system
caused those orders to be routed with inaccurate Customer origin codes. This issue
continued through November 2020.
As a result, from July 2019 through February 2022, RHF mismarked approximately 2.7
million options orders for 8.3 million contracts with an inaccurate origin code of
Customer rather than Professional Customer.
Therefore, RHF violated Exchange Act Section 17(a), Exchange Act Rule 17a-3(a)(6)(i),
and FINRA Rules 4511 and 2010.
b.

RHF failed to reasonably supervise the accuracy of its origin code
designations.

Prior to December 2019, RHF did not have a system, including WSPs, to reasonably
supervise the accuracy of origin codes. After December 2019, RHF established written
procedures that, among other things, defined a Professional Customer, and provided that
RHF's Surveillance Controls Manager, or designated reviewer, was to perform an
automated review, monthly or no less than quarterly, of all options activity to identify and
verify the accuracy of Professional Customers.
Until November 2021, however, the review was not designed reasonably because, as
described above, it used an incorrect methodology to calculate the average number of
trades per day in a given month. Further, the firm's supervisory system did not detect the
systems issue that caused orders from Professional Customers to be routed with
inaccurate Customer origin codes until November 2020.
Therefore, RHF violated FINRA Rules 3110 and 2010.
4.

RHS failed to report, and inaccurately reported, customer options
positions to the LOPR system.

FINRA Rule 2360(b)(5) requires member firms to report to the Large Options Position
Reporting system (LOPR)30 each customer or firm account that, acting alone or in
concert, has established an aggregate position of 200 or more option contracts on the
same side of the market covering the same underlying security or index. The report must
identify the account holder and the total number of option contracts for each options class
comprising the reportable position and must include other information as prescribed by
FINRA. The Options Clearing Corporation' s (OCC) published guidance provides that
30

The Options Clearing Corporation hosts LOPR and collects and disseminates all LOPR data for the U.S. options
exchanges and FINRA.

30

firms should report positions by submitting "Add," "Modify" or "Delete" records. 31 A
violation of FINRA Rule 2360(b)(5) also is a violation of FINRA Rule 2010.
a.

RHS's LOPR reporting violations.

During November 2018, RHS failed to report certain reportable options positions to
LOPR in approximately 33,000 instances.32 Prior to November 2018, RHF custodied its
customers' options positions w ith its clearing firm and the clearing firm reported options
positions to LOPR. When RHS began to clear and custody options positions for RHF
customers in November 2018, RHS mistakenly believed that the previous clearing firm
remained responsible for LOPR reporting for some of RHF customer accounts.
From November 2018 to March 2019, RHS also failed to determine whether any
customer accounts were under common control or acting in concert. As a result, RHS
failed to report approximately 40,000 instances of customer accounts as acting in concert.
Additionally, from November 2018 to January 2019, RHS reported options positions to
LOPR with incorrect account names and account types in approximately 180,000
instances. RHS, which had no proprietary accounts during that time, reported its RHF
customer positions using the "firm" account type and reported them using the firm name,
rather than the names of accountholders. From November 2018 to May 2019, in an
unknown number of instances, RHS failed to submit to LOPR "Modify" and "Delete"
records for instances where customers' positions changed on an options expiration date.
Finally, in July 2020 and January 2021, due to errors following OCC's rejection of
records, RHS failed to submit to LOPR "Add," "Modify" and "Delete" records in
approximately 22,680 instances.
Therefore, RHS violated FINRA Rules 2360(b)(5) and 2010.
b.

RHS failed to reasonably supervise LOPR reporting.

RHS failed to establish and maintain a supervisory system, including written procedures,
reasonably designed to achieve compliance with FINRA Rule 2360. Specifically, from
November 2018 to March 2019, RHS did not perform supervisory reviews reasonably
designed to determine whether it was reporting all required in-concert groups to LOPR or
to review reported options positions that the OCC rejected. Moreover, from November
2018 to August 2021, RHS' s WSPs concerning LOPR reporting did not provide
sufficient detail regarding how the firm reviewed LOPR reporting for accuracy.
Therefore, RHS violated FINRA Rules 3110 and 2010.
31

See Large Options Positions Reporting (LOPR) Reference Guide for LOPR Firms,
https://www.theocc.com/getmedia/af42a906-aa27-48a3-8529-8dee47ed4f7f/lopr_ref_guide.pdf; FINRA Regulatory
Notice 16-17 (May 2016).
32

An "instance" occurs where a firm fails to report, or inaccurately reports, a position for one day. The number of
instances is determined by multiplying a given reportable position by the number of trade dates that the position was
not reported or was reported inaccurately.

31

5.

RHS failed to report to FINRA its short interest positions.

FINRA Rule 4560 requires members to maintain a record of total short interest positions
in all customer and proprietary firm accounts in all equity securities, and to regularly
report such positions in a manner as prescribed by FINRA. A violation of FINRA Rule
4560 is also a violation of FINRA Rule 2010.
a.

RHS' s short interest reporting violations.

Although RHF does not allow its customers to engage in short selling, short positions
were created in customer accounts due to options assignment activity. During a review of
customer and inventory accounts in October 2021, RHS discovered that it held reportable
short positions resulting from this options activity. Because RHS had erroneously
believed that short positions could be created only through short selling, between
November 2018, when RHS and RHF entered into an exclusive clearing arrangement,
and October 15, 2021, RHS did not report the firm 's short interest to FINRA. Across the
70 bi-monthly reporting cycles from November 15, 2018, to October 15, 2021, RHS
failed to report 1,162 short interest positions totaling 1,697,998 shares.
Therefore, RHS violated FINRA Rules 4560 and 2010.
b.

RHS failed to reasonably supervise short interest reporting.

Because it did not identify that it held reportable short positions until October 2021,
between November 2018 and October 2021, RHS had no system or procedures in place
to confirm that its short interest data was reported to FINRA. In addition, RHS' s WSPs
did not address the firm's obligation to report short position data under FINRA Rule
4560. In December 2021, the firm implemented WSPs and procedures concerning short
interest reporting designed to confirm the accuracy and timely submission of short
interest reporting to FINRA.
Therefore, RHS violated FINRA Rules 3110 and 2010.
J.

RHS executed trades during halts and failed to comply with the Regulation
NMS Plan to address extraordinary market volatility.
1.

RHS traded securities during trading halts in violation of FINRA
Rules 5260, 6121, and 2010.

FINRA Rule 5260 generally prohibits broker-dealers from directly or indirectly effecting
any transaction or publishing a quotation in any security as to which a trading halt or
trading pause is in effect.33 FINRA Rule 6121 generally requires broker-dealers to halt
trading during a market-wide trading halt. A violation of FINRA Rules 5260 or 6121 is
also a violation of FINRA Rule 2010.
33

FINRA Regulatory Notice 13-12 (Mar. 2013) provides that Rule 5260 applies to trading pauses as well as to
trading halts.

32

a.

RHS' s trading violations.

From December 2019 through January 2023, RHS executed in a principal capacity over
33,000 transactions during approximately 1,200 trading halts and two market wide
trading halts. If a firm, such as RHS, effects a transaction during a trading halt, a
customer could receive a worse price than they would have received had the firm waited
to execute the trade until after the halt. Here, in approximately 2,200 of the 33,000
transactions, customers received an inferior price. After FINRA brought the violations to
the attention of RHS, RHS has identified 1,879 customers who received inferior prices
and will pay them restitution totaling $5,807.
Therefore, RHS violated FINRA Rules 5260, 6121, and 2010.
b.

RHS failed to establish a supervisory system reasonably designed
to monitor trading during halts.

Between December 2019 and March 2021, RHS did not monitor trading halts, had no
supervisory system for trading halts, and took no steps to prevent the firm from trading
during halts. Beginning in March 2021, RHS began to take steps intended to prevent the
firm from trading during halts. However, RHS did not establish any supervisory system,
including WSPs, for achieving compliance with FINRA Rule 5260 until July 2022.
Therefore, RHS violated FINRA Rule 3110 and 2010.
2.

RHS failed to comply with the Regulation NMS Plan to address
extraordinary market volatility.

The joint industry Regulation NMS Plan to Address Extraordinary Market Volatility is
intended to address the type of sudden price movements that the market experienced on
the afternoon of May 6, 2010, commonly known as the "Flash Crash." The Plan provides
for a limit up and limit down (LULD) mechanism to prevent trades in NMS stocks from
occurring outside specified price bands, which are set at a percentage level above and
below the average reference price of a security over the preceding five-minute period.
LULD price bands for each NMS stock are calculated and disseminated by the securities
information processors known as SIPs. The Plan is designed to protect investors and
promote fair and orderly markets during extraordinary market volatility.
FINRA Rule 6190 requires member firms that are trading centers in NMS stocks to
establish, maintain, and enforce written policies and procedures that are reasonably
designed to comply with the requirements of the Plan and specifically to prevent, among
other things, the execution of trades at prices that are below the lower price band or
above the upper price band for an NMS stock, except as permitted under the Plan.
Pursuant to FINRA Rule 6190 Supplementary Material .01, the term "trading center" has
the meaning set forth in Regulation NMS. Rule 600(b)(106) of Regulation NMS defines
''trading center" as, among other things, any broker-dealer that executes orders internally
by trading as principal or crossing orders as agent.

33

RHS began executing fractional share trades as principal in December 2019 but was
unaware that it was responsible for compliance with Rule 6190. Therefore, between
December 2019 and June 2022, RHS failed to establish and maintain any supervisory
system or written policies and procedures designed to prevent the execution of trades at
prices that are below the lower price band or above the upper price band for an NMS
stock. As a result, during that time, RHS executed over 265,000 transactions outside of
the LULD bands. In July 2022, after FINRA raised the issue, RHS established a
supervisory system and written procedures to detect and correct transactions outside of
the LULD bands. However, RHS's supervisory system and procedures were not
reasonable because they utilized a third-party report that inadvertently did not incorporate
late reported trades, which were more than 95 percent of trades that RHS effected outside
of the LULD bands. Consequently, between July 2022 and July 2023, RHS executed over
6,500 transactions outside of the LULD bands.34
Therefore, RHS violated FINRA Rules 6190, 3110, and 2010.
B.

Respondents also consent to the imposition of the following sanctions:
■

a censure;

■

a joint and several fine payable to FINRA in the amount of $26 million;

■

■

■

34

restitution from RHF to affected customers, totaling $3,751,578.12 plus interest as
described below;35
restitution from RHS to affected customers, totaling $5,807.00 plus interest as
described below;36
an undertaking that, within 180 days of the date of the notice of acceptance of this
A WC, a member of each Respondent's senior management who is a registered
principal of the firm shall certify in writing that, as of the date of the certification,
each firm has remediated the issues identified in this AWC and implemented a
supervisory system, including written supervisory procedures, reasonably
designed to achieve compliance with FINRA Rules and securities laws and
regulations regarding the issues identified in this AWC. Each certification shall
include a narrative description and supporting exhibits sufficient to demonstrate
each Respondent's remediation and implementation. FINRA staff may request
further evidence of each Respondent's remediation and implementation, and each

In August 2023, RHS implemented an enhanced review designed to detect all trades outside of the LULD bands.

35

This AWC orders RHF to pay restitution to a subset of customers affected by the firm's practice of collaring
market orders-specifically, those customers whose market orders were collared and canceled, and who then reentered their orders and received executions at prices less favorable than the market prices available at the time the
customers initially entered their orders.
36

This AWC orders RHS to pay restitution to a subset of customers affected by the firm's execution of trades during
halts-specifically, those customers whose trades RHS executed at prices less favorable than the market price
available at the time trading in the subject security resumed.

34

Respondent agrees to provide such evidence. Respondents shall submit each
certification to Gabrielle Hirz, Senior Counsel, 1700 K St NW, Suite 1200,
Washington, DC 20006, gabrielle.hirz@finra.org, with a copy to
EnforcementNotice@finra.org. Upon written request showing good cause,
FINRA staff may extend this deadline;
■

■

an undertaking by RHS to pay the regulatory transaction fees as required for
unreported fractional share trades executed between December 2019 and
November 2022 pursuant to Section 3 of Schedule A to FINRA's By-Laws; and
an undertaking by RHS that, within 180 days of the date of the notice of
acceptance of this AWC, the firm will resubmit corrected versions of the
erroneous or incomplete blue sheets that are the subject of this AWC to FINRA,
as directed by Susan Vaughan, Senior Director, Information Management. Upon
written request showing good cause, FINRA staff may extend this deadline.

Respondents agree to pay the monetary sanctions upon notice that this AWC has been
accepted and that such payment is due and payable. Respondents have submitted an
Election of Payment form showing the method by which they propose to pay the fines
imposed.
Restitution is ordered to be paid: (1) by RHF to the customers listed on Attachment A to
this AWC (Eligible Customers) in the total amount of $3,751,578.12, plus interest; and
(2) by RHS to the customers associated with each trade listed on Attachment B to this
AWC (Eligible Customers) in the total amount of $5,807.00, plus interest. Interest shall
be paid at the rate set forth in Section 6621(a)(2) of the Internal Revenue Code, 26 U.S.C.
§ 6621(a)(2), from the date of the relevant transaction(s) for each customer identified on
Attachments A and B until the date this AWC is accepted by the National Adjudicatory
Council (NAC).
A registered principal on behalf of each Respondent shall submit satisfactory proof of
payment of restitution and interest (separately specifying the date and amount of each
paid to each Eligible Customer) or of reasonable and documented efforts undertaken to
effect restitution. Such proof shall be submitted by email to
EnforcementNotice@FINRA.org from a work-related account of the registered principal
of each Respondent. The email must identify the Respondent and the case number and
include a copy of the check, money order, or other method of payment. This proof shall
be provided by email to EnforcementNotice@FINRA.org no later than 120 days after the
date of the notice of acceptance of the AWC.
The restitution amount plus interest to be paid to each Eligible Customer shall be treated
by the Respondents as the Eligible Customer's property for purposes of state
escheatment, unclaimed property, abandoned property, and similar laws. If after
reasonable and documented efforts undertaken to effect restitution a Respondent is
unable to pay all Eligible Customers within 120 days after the date of the notice of
acceptance of the AWC, the Respondent shall submit to FINRA in the manner described
above a list of the unpaid Eligible Customer s and a description of the Respondent's plan,
35

not unacceptable to FINRA, to comply with the applicable escheatment, unclaimed
property, abandoned property, or similar laws for each such Eligible Customer.
Respondents specifically and voluntarily waive any right to claim an inability to pay, now
or at any time after the execution of this AWC, the monetary sanctions imposed in this
matter.
The imposition of a restitution order or any other monetary sanction in this AWC, and the
timing of such ordered payments, does not preclude customers from pursuing their own
actions to obtain restitution or other remedies.
Restitution payments to customers shall be preceded or accompanied by a letter, not
unacceptable to FINRA, describing the reason for the payment and the fact that the
payment is being made pursuant to a settlement with FINRA and as a term of this AWC.
The sanctions imposed in this AWC shall be effective on a date set by FINRA.
II.
WAIVER OF PROCEDURAL RIGHTS
Respondents specifically and voluntarily waive the following rights granted under FINRA' s
Code of Procedure:
A.

To have a complaint issued specifying the allegations against them;

B.

To be notified of the complaint and have the opportunity to answer the allegations
in writing;

C.

To defend against the allegations in a disciplinary hearing before a hearing panel,
to have a written record of the hearing made, and to have a written decision
issued; and

D.

To appeal any such decision to the National Adjudicatory Council (NAC) and
then to the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission and a U.S. Court of
Appeals.

Further, Respondents specifically and voluntarily waive any right to claim bias or prejudgment
of the Chief Legal Officer, the NAC, or any member of the NAC, in connection with such
person's or body's participation in discussions re garding the terms and conditions of this AWC,
or other consideration of this AWC, including its acceptance or rejection.
Respondents further specifically and voluntarily waive any right to claim that a person violated
the ex parte prohibitions of FINRA Rule 9143 or the separation of functions prohibitions of
FINRA Rule 9144, in connection with such person's or body's participation in discussions
regarding the terms and conditions of this AWC, or other consideration of this AWC, including
its acceptance or rejection.
36

III.
OTHER MATTERS
Respondents understand that:
A.

Submission of this AWC is voluntary and will not resolve this matter unless and
until it has been reviewed and accepted by the NAC, a Review Subcommittee of
the NAC, or the Office of Disciplinary Affairs (ODA), pursuant to FINRA Rule
9216;

B.

If this AWC is not accepted, its submission will not be used as evidence to prove
any of the allegations against Respondents; and

C.

If accepted:

D.

1.

this AWC will become part of Respondents' permanent disciplinary
record and may be considered in any future action brought by FINRA or
any other regulator against Respondents;

2.

this AWC will be made available through FINRA's public disclosure
program in accordance with FINRA Rule 8313;

3.

FINRA may make a public announcement concerning this agreement and
its subject matter in accordance with FINRA Rule 8313; and

4.

Respondents may not take any action or make or permit to be made any
public statement, including in regulatory filings or otherwise, denying,
directly or indirectly, any finding in this AWC or create the impression
that the AWC is without factual basis. Respondents may not take any
position in any proceeding brought by or on behalf of FINRA, or to which
FINRA is a party, that is inconsistent with any part of this AWC. Nothing
in this provision affects Respondents' right to take legal or factual
positions in litigation or other legal proceedings in which FINRA is not a
party. Nothing in this provision affects Respondents' testimonial
obligations in any litigation or other legal proceedings.

Respondents may attach a corrective action statement to this AWC that is a
statement of demonstrable corrective steps taken to prevent future misconduct.
Respondents understand that they may not deny the charges or make any
statement that is inconsistent with the AWC in this statement. This statement does
not constitute factual or legal findings by FINRA, nor does it reflect the views of
FINRA.

The undersigned, on behalf of Respondents, certify that a person duly authorized to act on
Respondents' behalf has read and understands all of the provisions of this AWC and has been
given a full opportunity to ask questions about it; that Respondents have agreed to the AWC's
37

provisions voluntarily; and that no offer, threat, inducement, or promise of any kind, other than
the terms set forth in this AWC and the prospect of avoiding the issuance of a complaint, has
been made to induce Respondents to submit this AWC.
February 25, 2025

Date

____________________________________
Robinhood Financial, LLC
Respondent
Print Name:
Title:

February 25, 2025

Date

Matthew Billings

President

____________________________________
Robinhood Securities, LLC
Respondent
Print Name:
Title:

Reviewed by:
_______________________
Susan Schroeder
Counsel for Respondents
Wilmer Hale
7 World Trade Center
250 Greenwich Street
New York, New York 10007

38

Matthew Billings

President

Accepted by FINRA:
Signed on behalf of the
Director of ODA, by delegated authority
March 6, 2025

Date

Gabrielle Hirz
Senior Counsel
FINRA
Department of Enforcement
1700 K Street NW
Washington, DC 20006

39

Attachment A
Customer
Customer 1
Customer 2
Customer 3
Customer 4
Customer 5
Customer 6
Customer 7
Customer 8
Customer 9
Customer 10
Customer 11
Customer 12
Customer 13
Customer 14
Customer 15
Customer 16
Customer 17
Customer 18
Customer 19
Customer 20
Customer 21
Customer 22
Customer 23
Customer 24
Customer 25
Customer 26
Customer 27
Customer 28
Customer 29
Customer 30
Customer 31
Customer 32
Customer 33
Customer 34
Customer 35
Customer 36
Customer 37
Customer 38
Customer 39
Customer 40
Customer 41
Customer 42
Customer 43
Customer 44
Customer 45
Customer 46
Customer 47
Customer 48
Customer 49
Customer 50

Restitution
Amount

$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$

138.69
405.47
899.44
209.50
48,961.36
120.60
215.05
172.24
492.00
196.45
598.32
141.76
255.75
168.92
425.92
165.72
582.31
339.93
260.00
141.80
295.91
327.01
102.60
127.53
303.17
112.00
103.32
198.72
177.00
166.60
504.83
437.01
204.08
230.00
1,339.79
111.41
136.40
796.02
875.25
2,076.00
269.70
143.28
150.66
617.58
2,850.00
373.94
125.22
113.66
138.74
147.51

Customer
Customer 51
Customer 52
Customer 53
Customer 54
Customer 55
Customer 56
Customer 57
Customer 58
Customer 59
Customer 60
Customer 61
Customer 62
Customer 63
Customer 64
Customer 65
Customer 66
Customer 67
Customer 68
Customer 69
Customer 70
Customer 71
Customer 72
Customer 73
Customer 74
Customer 75
Customer 76
Customer 77
Customer 78
Customer 79
Customer 80
Customer 81
Customer 82
Customer 83
Customer 84
Customer 85
Customer 86
Customer 87
Customer 88
Customer 89
Customer 90
Customer 91
Customer 92
Customer 93
Customer 94
Customer 95
Customer 96
Customer 97
Customer 98
Customer 99
Customer 100

Restitution
Amount

$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$

188.75
723.89
108.01
192.58
718.46
514.55
238.70
124.90
119.69
2,408.78
179.05
140.96
818.50
638.90
143.27
132.27
129.73
120.82
652.70
130.29
113.87
173.36
323.67
112.53
292.50
4,692.75
137.47
104.40
132.31
121.03
853.00
586.52
326.39
685.67
261.75
322.00
702.00
423.20
236.15
127.44
243.10
946.03
123.13
3,095.43
377.04
4,855.04
208.00
135.00
215.06
1,232.73

Customer
Customer 101
Customer 102
Customer 103
Customer 104
Customer 105
Customer 106
Customer 107
Customer 108
Customer 109
Customer 110
Customer 111
Customer 112
Customer 113
Customer 114
Customer 115
Customer 116
Customer 117
Customer 118
Customer 119
Customer 120
Customer 121
Customer 122
Customer 123
Customer 124
Customer 125
Customer 126
Customer 127
Customer 128
Customer 129
Customer 130
Customer 131
Customer 132
Customer 133
Customer 134
Customer 135
Customer 136
Customer 137
Customer 138
Customer 139
Customer 140
Customer 141
Customer 142
Customer 143
Customer 144
Customer 145
Customer 146
Customer 147
Customer 148
Customer 149
Customer 150

Restitution
Amount

$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$

151.72
680.40
188.79
8,007.05
180.93
161.85
145.46
126.45
1,933.95
488.00
1,656.94
292.39
1,375.50
860.22
981.92
2,099.47
111.50
215.04
138.20
112.81
972.00
295.90
116.90
1,900.00
182.93
1,602.15
273.30
103.20
162.28
137.38
276.12
114.15
315.00
132.46
153.61
197.51
317.82
440.32
138.06
120.37
655.00
209.70
132.47
207.88
317.82
165.10
169.70
140.55
678.72
419.80

Attachment A
Customer
Customer 151
Customer 152
Customer 153
Customer 154
Customer 155
Customer 156
Customer 157
Customer 158
Customer 159
Customer 160
Customer 161
Customer 162
Customer 163
Customer 164
Customer 165
Customer 166
Customer 167
Customer 168
Customer 169
Customer 170
Customer 171
Customer 172
Customer 173
Customer 174
Customer 175
Customer 176
Customer 177
Customer 178
Customer 179
Customer 180
Customer 181
Customer 182
Customer 183
Customer 184
Customer 185
Customer 186
Customer 187
Customer 188
Customer 189
Customer 190
Customer 191
Customer 192
Customer 193
Customer 194
Customer 195
Customer 196
Customer 197
Customer 198
Customer 199
Customer 200

Restitution
Amount

$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$

248.02
116.53
229.68
122.38
210.00
112.77
135.96
103.35
272.70
257.20
748.59
329.06
8,262.89
176.87
333.20
209.94
627.12
168.65
727.68
485.00
389.80
164.37
3,747.60
3,846.31
256.68
141.75
275.70
121.18
782.88
2,094.83
102.99
705.65
299.37
407.20
1,694.26
437.52
150.06
667.63
955.71
303.45
601.51
133.82
1,294.81
170.64
175.05
279.68
146.16
122.91
205.53
296.40

Customer
Customer 201
Customer 202
Customer 203
Customer 204
Customer 205
Customer 206
Customer 207
Customer 208
Customer 209
Customer 210
Customer 211
Customer 212
Customer 213
Customer 214
Customer 215
Customer 216
Customer 217
Customer 218
Customer 219
Customer 220
Customer 221
Customer 222
Customer 223
Customer 224
Customer 225
Customer 226
Customer 227
Customer 228
Customer 229
Customer 230
Customer 231
Customer 232
Customer 233
Customer 234
Customer 235
Customer 236
Customer 237
Customer 238
Customer 239
Customer 240
Customer 241
Customer 242
Customer 243
Customer 244
Customer 245
Customer 246
Customer 247
Customer 248
Customer 249
Customer 250

Restitution
Amount

$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$

138.40
162.01
110.00
112.36
116.75
208.80
306.50
706.14
159.36
134.30
117.00
122.80
1,250.00
944.94
6,420.00
134.12
111.41
114.12
157.41
268.50
192.83
115.53
207.75
346.78
380.50
190.03
174.08
275.40
369.50
197.36
112.43
126.32
795.58
149.16
400.96
707.45
165.97
671.50
102.01
123.72
144.17
184.62
151.33
245.68
100.96
770.56
261.96
126.52
538.80
100.02

Customer
Customer 251
Customer 252
Customer 253
Customer 254
Customer 255
Customer 256
Customer 257
Customer 258
Customer 259
Customer 260
Customer 261
Customer 262
Customer 263
Customer 264
Customer 265
Customer 266
Customer 267
Customer 268
Customer 269
Customer 270
Customer 271
Customer 272
Customer 273
Customer 274
Customer 275
Customer 276
Customer 277
Customer 278
Customer 279
Customer 280
Customer 281
Customer 282
Customer 283
Customer 284
Customer 285
Customer 286
Customer 287
Customer 288
Customer 289
Customer 290
Customer 291
Customer 292
Customer 293
Customer 294
Customer 295
Customer 296
Customer 297
Customer 298
Customer 299
Customer 300

Restitution
Amount

$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$

256.48
100.74
106.30
184.80
161.40
120.00
171.25
142.01
274.60
386.06
109.05
147.89
163.88
201.86
130.00
153.94
256.93
105.30
103.18
394.40
386.14
317.40
300.04
205.98
372.30
128.37
182.00
168.46
105.10
141.25
210.57
314.09
5,507.29
1,073.70
209.00
200.48
114.71
382.91
400.17
193.31
207.66
127.20
125.58
819.00
157.51
516.88
250.05
121.84
178.70
152.00

Attachment A
Customer
Customer 301
Customer 302
Customer 303
Customer 304
Customer 305
Customer 306
Customer 307
Customer 308
Customer 309
Customer 310
Customer 311
Customer 312
Customer 313
Customer 314
Customer 315
Customer 316
Customer 317
Customer 318
Customer 319
Customer 320
Customer 321
Customer 322
Customer 323
Customer 324
Customer 325
Customer 326
Customer 327
Customer 328
Customer 329
Customer 330
Customer 331
Customer 332
Customer 333
Customer 334
Customer 335
Customer 336
Customer 337
Customer 338
Customer 339
Customer 340
Customer 341
Customer 342
Customer 343
Customer 344
Customer 345
Customer 346
Customer 347
Customer 348
Customer 349
Customer 350

Restitution
Amount

$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$

173.34
197.43
179.11
104.98
106.22
102.82
125.30
1,107.89
108.03
218.15
759.10
358.09
384.85
190.18
326.46
334.54
321.79
135.50
244.53
171.70
254.38
133.61
335.96
189.80
102.21
400.83
540.77
125.72
169.88
415.05
103.15
333.83
104.41
117.88
124.37
126.14
197.40
121.03
102.49
782.95
848.34
151.13
278.67
106.79
258.18
103.20
102.90
383.61
108.63
146.15

Customer
Customer 351
Customer 352
Customer 353
Customer 354
Customer 355
Customer 356
Customer 357
Customer 358
Customer 359
Customer 360
Customer 361
Customer 362
Customer 363
Customer 364
Customer 365
Customer 366
Customer 367
Customer 368
Customer 369
Customer 370
Customer 371
Customer 372
Customer 373
Customer 374
Customer 375
Customer 376
Customer 377
Customer 378
Customer 379
Customer 380
Customer 381
Customer 382
Customer 383
Customer 384
Customer 385
Customer 386
Customer 387
Customer 388
Customer 389
Customer 390
Customer 391
Customer 392
Customer 393
Customer 394
Customer 395
Customer 396
Customer 397
Customer 398
Customer 399
Customer 400

Restitution
Amount

$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$

231.60
246.31
369.32
745.54
111.00
634.47
273.88
197.37
126.21
169.94
328.00
488.36
100.97
141.55
193.88
101.44
347.05
110.72
290.32
253.36
327.59
324.93
367.74
348.41
120.00
677.36
138.71
134.68
189.12
268.13
264.83
288.57
203.00
187.45
278.60
105.13
115.16
121.70
119.86
238.80
832.65
243.54
116.49
105.00
243.00
383.22
244.80
305.21
101.21
200.35

Customer
Customer 401
Customer 402
Customer 403
Customer 404
Customer 405
Customer 406
Customer 407
Customer 408
Customer 409
Customer 410
Customer 411
Customer 412
Customer 413
Customer 414
Customer 415
Customer 416
Customer 417
Customer 418
Customer 419
Customer 420
Customer 421
Customer 422
Customer 423
Customer 424
Customer 425
Customer 426
Customer 427
Customer 428
Customer 429
Customer 430
Customer 431
Customer 432
Customer 433
Customer 434
Customer 435
Customer 436
Customer 437
Customer 438
Customer 439
Customer 440
Customer 441
Customer 442
Customer 443
Customer 444
Customer 445
Customer 446
Customer 447
Customer 448
Customer 449
Customer 450

Restitution
Amount

$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$

159.91
117.68
102.99
305.20
143.81
358.97
1,887.86
101.45
760.00
103.80
131.25
361.00
116.27
156.29
360.00
124.74
449.88
1,948.35
121.84
118.00
1,151.34
136.13
162.04
239.30
352.55
880.00
157.50
149.41
325.84
233.50
200.53
210.58
117.00
175.50
230.96
1,609.20
149.56
191.91
119.36
170.53
1,170.00
317.74
202.70
223.68
101.40
125.10
103.78
300.00
253.64
119.75

Attachment A
Customer
Customer 451
Customer 452
Customer 453
Customer 454
Customer 455
Customer 456
Customer 457
Customer 458
Customer 459
Customer 460
Customer 461
Customer 462
Customer 463
Customer 464
Customer 465
Customer 466
Customer 467
Customer 468
Customer 469
Customer 470
Customer 471
Customer 472
Customer 473
Customer 474
Customer 475
Customer 476
Customer 477
Customer 478
Customer 479
Customer 480
Customer 481
Customer 482
Customer 483
Customer 484
Customer 485
Customer 486
Customer 487
Customer 488
Customer 489
Customer 490
Customer 491
Customer 492
Customer 493
Customer 494
Customer 495
Customer 496
Customer 497
Customer 498
Customer 499
Customer 500

Restitution
Amount

$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$

121.91
401.61
115.71
277.62
577.40
121.00
112.93
157.00
105.00
183.65
114.95
147.26
133.00
127.27
114.67
344.91
140.27
141.84
244.54
217.50
183.35
197.72
297.88
974.20
581.04
191.74
882.34
133.12
152.44
1,800.45
130.52
253.50
330.10
459.20
154.28
161.00
107.57
158.99
1,101.66
127.59
235.18
307.46
316.68
149.80
115.00
161.71
372.23
306.95
764.44
485.73

Customer
Customer 501
Customer 502
Customer 503
Customer 504
Customer 505
Customer 506
Customer 507
Customer 508
Customer 509
Customer 510
Customer 511
Customer 512
Customer 513
Customer 514
Customer 515
Customer 516
Customer 517
Customer 518
Customer 519
Customer 520
Customer 521
Customer 522
Customer 523
Customer 524
Customer 525
Customer 526
Customer 527
Customer 528
Customer 529
Customer 530
Customer 531
Customer 532
Customer 533
Customer 534
Customer 535
Customer 536
Customer 537
Customer 538
Customer 539
Customer 540
Customer 541
Customer 542
Customer 543
Customer 544
Customer 545
Customer 546
Customer 547
Customer 548
Customer 549
Customer 550

Restitution
Amount

$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$

118.85
184.55
147.37
128.77
144.21
346.14
999.51
218.19
158.07
530.67
115.90
100.13
444.15
170.69
356.91
197.82
846.99
901.19
154.64
2,130.30
108.94
299.40
118.15
166.50
131.68
473.04
105.00
145.98
1,278.49
279.62
142.50
268.45
101.99
145.20
205.18
621.81
341.79
142.49
121.20
2,525.28
203.53
485.14
417.57
139.95
2,180.70
110.75
288.52
380.40
180.33
996.56

Customer
Customer 551
Customer 552
Customer 553
Customer 554
Customer 555
Customer 556
Customer 557
Customer 558
Customer 559
Customer 560
Customer 561
Customer 562
Customer 563
Customer 564
Customer 565
Customer 566
Customer 567
Customer 568
Customer 569
Customer 570
Customer 571
Customer 572
Customer 573
Customer 574
Customer 575
Customer 576
Customer 577
Customer 578
Customer 579
Customer 580
Customer 581
Customer 582
Customer 583
Customer 584
Customer 585
Customer 586
Customer 587
Customer 588
Customer 589
Customer 590
Customer 591
Customer 592
Customer 593
Customer 594
Customer 595
Customer 596
Customer 597
Customer 598
Customer 599
Customer 600

Restitution
Amount

$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$

194.67
434.58
1,164.00
120.12
116.72
622.25
3,695.20
511.02
124.08
311.28
196.11
137.91
903.00
115.40
195.70
318.47
123.15
369.82
423.50
113.62
219.65
245.76
134.70
439.24
122.57
278.24
114.98
8,512.43
105.77
336.98
208.14
106.05
100.93
469.00
152.64
136.20
176.30
330.56
100.51
242.68
114.09
181.31
585.04
321.52
178.00
260.07
100.80
171.61
164.13
144.19

Attachment A
Customer
Customer 601
Customer 602
Customer 603
Customer 604
Customer 605
Customer 606
Customer 607
Customer 608
Customer 609
Customer 610
Customer 611
Customer 612
Customer 613
Customer 614
Customer 615
Customer 616
Customer 617
Customer 618
Customer 619
Customer 620
Customer 621
Customer 622
Customer 623
Customer 624
Customer 625
Customer 626
Customer 627
Customer 628
Customer 629
Customer 630
Customer 631
Customer 632
Customer 633
Customer 634
Customer 635
Customer 636
Customer 637
Customer 638
Customer 639
Customer 640
Customer 641
Customer 642
Customer 643
Customer 644
Customer 645
Customer 646
Customer 647
Customer 648
Customer 649
Customer 650

Restitution
Amount

$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$

817.00
120.00
1,551.14
248.90
158.53
202.12
853.90
420.04
152.00
250.00
150.57
109.19
307.20
104.42
134.27
248.50
105.18
457.36
443.81
1,264.15
126.24
131.49
127.00
140.74
275.98
239.53
890.01
186.00
2,760.00
109.86
115.15
174.83
454.32
571.00
635.57
206.92
501.60
251.67
193.91
813.16
306.00
293.67
532.28
258.23
141.95
186.12
1,130.26
131.66
180.45
219.50

Customer
Customer 651
Customer 652
Customer 653
Customer 654
Customer 655
Customer 656
Customer 657
Customer 658
Customer 659
Customer 660
Customer 661
Customer 662
Customer 663
Customer 664
Customer 665
Customer 666
Customer 667
Customer 668
Customer 669
Customer 670
Customer 671
Customer 672
Customer 673
Customer 674
Customer 675
Customer 676
Customer 677
Customer 678
Customer 679
Customer 680
Customer 681
Customer 682
Customer 683
Customer 684
Customer 685
Customer 686
Customer 687
Customer 688
Customer 689
Customer 690
Customer 691
Customer 692
Customer 693
Customer 694
Customer 695
Customer 696
Customer 697
Customer 698
Customer 699
Customer 700

Restitution
Amount

$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$

192.11
137.50
114.00
817.67
100.25
210.77
139.22
140.70
1,700.70
105.80
108.46
983.18
406.98
213.87
235.42
371.73
173.80
231.80
111.75
321.04
160.80
1,046.76
131.31
161.96
652.00
116.59
1,032.03
113.65
294.21
3,501.41
1,158.60
206.99
2,838.87
212.74
112.60
944.10
406.54
502.50
217.02
1,117.99
672.99
574.48
154.19
110.00
180.78
131.33
130.30
606.02
100.80
175.00

Customer
Customer 701
Customer 702
Customer 703
Customer 704
Customer 705
Customer 706
Customer 707
Customer 708
Customer 709
Customer 710
Customer 711
Customer 712
Customer 713
Customer 714
Customer 715
Customer 716
Customer 717
Customer 718
Customer 719
Customer 720
Customer 721
Customer 722
Customer 723
Customer 724
Customer 725
Customer 726
Customer 727
Customer 728
Customer 729
Customer 730
Customer 731
Customer 732
Customer 733
Customer 734
Customer 735
Customer 736
Customer 737
Customer 738
Customer 739
Customer 740
Customer 741
Customer 742
Customer 743
Customer 744
Customer 745
Customer 746
Customer 747
Customer 748
Customer 749
Customer 750

Restitution
Amount

$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$

472.95
273.25
250.50
163.45
509.40
155.04
889.64
332.00
125.30
142.46
343.78
318.21
140.10
375.61
634.18
155.00
138.58
519.40
113.48
107.21
173.25
434.61
233.11
485.90
211.92
134.04
493.90
1,013.45
568.14
125.00
174.32
168.75
109.20
693.60
234.75
164.46
267.53
402.20
305.48
158.54
184.80
850.36
101.75
166.03
388.72
104.25
311.19
194.89
773.01
9,248.30

Attachment A
Customer
Customer 751
Customer 752
Customer 753
Customer 754
Customer 755
Customer 756
Customer 757
Customer 758
Customer 759
Customer 760
Customer 761
Customer 762
Customer 763
Customer 764
Customer 765
Customer 766
Customer 767
Customer 768
Customer 769
Customer 770
Customer 771
Customer 772
Customer 773
Customer 774
Customer 775
Customer 776
Customer 777
Customer 778
Customer 779
Customer 780
Customer 781
Customer 782
Customer 783
Customer 784
Customer 785
Customer 786
Customer 787
Customer 788
Customer 789
Customer 790
Customer 791
Customer 792
Customer 793
Customer 794
Customer 795
Customer 796
Customer 797
Customer 798
Customer 799
Customer 800

Restitution
Amount

$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$

3,063.20
212.12
158.74
1,098.54
357.80
118.20
110.87
109.37
328.00
115.85
107.02
184.57
128.15
2,884.11
310.78
951.80
100.26
431.42
219.93
301.69
1,956.70
645.38
1,837.82
116.25
206.22
191.60
604.52
567.60
932.07
113.25
176.00
2,635.20
119.89
111.75
138.38
172.57
240.00
501.08
137.89
361.01
31,231.77
125.30
252.90
455.00
123.60
601.50
145.78
118.66
147.26
200.25

Customer
Customer 801
Customer 802
Customer 803
Customer 804
Customer 805
Customer 806
Customer 807
Customer 808
Customer 809
Customer 810
Customer 811
Customer 812
Customer 813
Customer 814
Customer 815
Customer 816
Customer 817
Customer 818
Customer 819
Customer 820
Customer 821
Customer 822
Customer 823
Customer 824
Customer 825
Customer 826
Customer 827
Customer 828
Customer 829
Customer 830
Customer 831
Customer 832
Customer 833
Customer 834
Customer 835
Customer 836
Customer 837
Customer 838
Customer 839
Customer 840
Customer 841
Customer 842
Customer 843
Customer 844
Customer 845
Customer 846
Customer 847
Customer 848
Customer 849
Customer 850

Restitution
Amount

$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$

179.95
910.07
216.21
154.27
207.60
212.87
479.40
128.69
381.08
502.22
716.16
265.02
122.50
2,430.00
130.00
1,388.79
1,432.22
285.60
234.72
226.08
187.61
165.25
116.60
103.56
201.80
607.70
370.23
175.34
186.64
285.69
103.50
184.26
318.40
110.73
139.42
240.80
333.93
283.74
343.33
706.58
147.84
528.41
612.40
37,570.20
105.60
2,137.02
9,295.06
552.53
130.81
182.00

Customer
Customer 851
Customer 852
Customer 853
Customer 854
Customer 855
Customer 856
Customer 857
Customer 858
Customer 859
Customer 860
Customer 861
Customer 862
Customer 863
Customer 864
Customer 865
Customer 866
Customer 867
Customer 868
Customer 869
Customer 870
Customer 871
Customer 872
Customer 873
Customer 874
Customer 875
Customer 876
Customer 877
Customer 878
Customer 879
Customer 880
Customer 881
Customer 882
Customer 883
Customer 884
Customer 885
Customer 886
Customer 887
Customer 888
Customer 889
Customer 890
Customer 891
Customer 892
Customer 893
Customer 894
Customer 895
Customer 896
Customer 897
Customer 898
Customer 899
Customer 900

Restitution
Amount

$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$

117.26
122.59
215.04
123.49
1,065.06
344.11
115.10
207.48
1,658.16
109.00
104.44
219.50
126.92
167.58
236.06
656.99
136.41
329.78
197.74
979.77
162.62
577.94
180.23
490.88
139.50
107.51
210.00
452.16
433.51
300.09
369.00
181.67
146.22
177.03
141.74
1,195.73
100.80
488.41
329.35
338.91
173.66
1,063.21
674.44
125.00
118.98
224.31
140.40
584.50
2,968.50
759.18

Attachment A
Customer
Customer 901
Customer 902
Customer 903
Customer 904
Customer 905
Customer 906
Customer 907
Customer 908
Customer 909
Customer 910
Customer 911
Customer 912
Customer 913
Customer 914
Customer 915
Customer 916
Customer 917
Customer 918
Customer 919
Customer 920
Customer 921
Customer 922
Customer 923
Customer 924
Customer 925
Customer 926
Customer 927
Customer 928
Customer 929
Customer 930
Customer 931
Customer 932
Customer 933
Customer 934
Customer 935
Customer 936
Customer 937
Customer 938
Customer 939
Customer 940
Customer 941
Customer 942
Customer 943
Customer 944
Customer 945
Customer 946
Customer 947
Customer 948
Customer 949
Customer 950

Restitution
Amount

$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$

232.40
564.85
125.30
674.12
611.17
630.23
126.80
264.90
188.80
856.35
384.25
125.55
469.00
166.16
1,165.11
107.76
140.50
338.19
139.58
137.68
212.00
106.25
844.16
351.12
202.74
113.67
258.19
133.77
326.53
271.53
303.20
405.96
1,472.00
127.19
288.73
510.89
379.10
233.51
192.58
511.97
103.10
1,008.00
116.96
130.06
105.87
173.62
137.00
295.67
173.34
115.36

Customer
Customer 951
Customer 952
Customer 953
Customer 954
Customer 955
Customer 956
Customer 957
Customer 958
Customer 959
Customer 960
Customer 961
Customer 962
Customer 963
Customer 964
Customer 965
Customer 966
Customer 967
Customer 968
Customer 969
Customer 970
Customer 971
Customer 972
Customer 973
Customer 974
Customer 975
Customer 976
Customer 977
Customer 978
Customer 979
Customer 980
Customer 981
Customer 982
Customer 983
Customer 984
Customer 985
Customer 986
Customer 987
Customer 988
Customer 989
Customer 990
Customer 991
Customer 992
Customer 993
Customer 994
Customer 995
Customer 996
Customer 997
Customer 998
Customer 999
Customer 1000

Restitution
Amount

$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$

203.73
346.88
123.61
100.24
148.95
114.00
118.00
114.92
108.31
200.65
129.37
234.84
141.78
242.90
155.56
202.98
319.13
372.64
194.45
223.53
111.70
174.39
798.00
172.15
3,410.02
194.53
255.89
410.00
139.33
285.60
158.15
169.00
123.52
728.49
933.32
281.12
592.87
258.80
368.25
115.80
1,165.42
173.79
136.91
300.24
155.49
216.93
108.39
403.56
248.34
212.21

Customer
Customer 1001
Customer 1002
Customer 1003
Customer 1004
Customer 1005
Customer 1006
Customer 1007
Customer 1008
Customer 1009
Customer 1010
Customer 1011
Customer 1012
Customer 1013
Customer 1014
Customer 1015
Customer 1016
Customer 1017
Customer 1018
Customer 1019
Customer 1020
Customer 1021
Customer 1022
Customer 1023
Customer 1024
Customer 1025
Customer 1026
Customer 1027
Customer 1028
Customer 1029
Customer 1030
Customer 1031
Customer 1032
Customer 1033
Customer 1034
Customer 1035
Customer 1036
Customer 1037
Customer 1038
Customer 1039
Customer 1040
Customer 1041
Customer 1042
Customer 1043
Customer 1044
Customer 1045
Customer 1046
Customer 1047
Customer 1048
Customer 1049
Customer 1050

Restitution
Amount

$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$

171.04
1,068.43
213.90
106.20
270.72
168.06
182.80
202.95
106.22
212.35
237.08
117.66
428.40
118.47
274.35
142.08
148.32
385.74
144.75
124.02
255.71
100.80
335.95
129.14
229.35
879.80
135.55
158.27
446.46
612.82
181.10
829.92
287.75
450.27
126.04
131.81
348.26
1,027.93
199.20
119.43
141.50
158.29
159.30
333.07
107.59
187.00
279.38
131.59
915.90
382.20

Attachment A
Customer
Customer 1051
Customer 1052
Customer 1053
Customer 1054
Customer 1055
Customer 1056
Customer 1057
Customer 1058
Customer 1059
Customer 1060
Customer 1061
Customer 1062
Customer 1063
Customer 1064
Customer 1065
Customer 1066
Customer 1067
Customer 1068
Customer 1069
Customer 1070
Customer 1071
Customer 1072
Customer 1073
Customer 1074
Customer 1075
Customer 1076
Customer 1077
Customer 1078
Customer 1079
Customer 1080
Customer 1081
Customer 1082
Customer 1083
Customer 1084
Customer 1085
Customer 1086
Customer 1087
Customer 1088
Customer 1089
Customer 1090
Customer 1091
Customer 1092
Customer 1093
Customer 1094
Customer 1095
Customer 1096
Customer 1097
Customer 1098
Customer 1099
Customer 1100

Restitution
Amount

$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$

291.03
113.69
104.26
195.92
122.10
165.17
159.38
357.04
192.00
221.20
124.85
121.30
166.32
117.03
115.14
195.93
274.60
145.35
141.40
110.43
406.72
383.29
540.23
148.32
150.31
114.27
236.78
105.60
427.46
116.83
249.22
132.92
218.12
258.50
571.04
179.06
207.66
305.84
116.83
273.90
335.45
180.00
115.12
372.50
183.69
100.36
602.00
273.85
187.66
804.76

Customer
Customer 1101
Customer 1102
Customer 1103
Customer 1104
Customer 1105
Customer 1106
Customer 1107
Customer 1108
Customer 1109
Customer 1110
Customer 1111
Customer 1112
Customer 1113
Customer 1114
Customer 1115
Customer 1116
Customer 1117
Customer 1118
Customer 1119
Customer 1120
Customer 1121
Customer 1122
Customer 1123
Customer 1124
Customer 1125
Customer 1126
Customer 1127
Customer 1128
Customer 1129
Customer 1130
Customer 1131
Customer 1132
Customer 1133
Customer 1134
Customer 1135
Customer 1136
Customer 1137
Customer 1138
Customer 1139
Customer 1140
Customer 1141
Customer 1142
Customer 1143
Customer 1144
Customer 1145
Customer 1146
Customer 1147
Customer 1148
Customer 1149
Customer 1150

Restitution
Amount

$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$

305.32
121.98
1,047.00
550.00
105.47
680.94
992.77
142.45
206.32
458.25
3,141.58
116.11
630.21
213.80
257.78
376.75
151.74
153.70
188.80
116.90
118.50
520.00
646.84
113.99
107.60
123.60
333.89
151.30
436.50
322.53
681.50
131.66
173.68
108.60
324.79
246.00
913.76
292.88
359.28
100.87
151.07
203.39
1,416.87
1,413.80
249.00
128.60
116.30
745.20
137.60
124.17

Customer
Customer 1151
Customer 1152
Customer 1153
Customer 1154
Customer 1155
Customer 1156
Customer 1157
Customer 1158
Customer 1159
Customer 1160
Customer 1161
Customer 1162
Customer 1163
Customer 1164
Customer 1165
Customer 1166
Customer 1167
Customer 1168
Customer 1169
Customer 1170
Customer 1171
Customer 1172
Customer 1173
Customer 1174
Customer 1175
Customer 1176
Customer 1177
Customer 1178
Customer 1179
Customer 1180
Customer 1181
Customer 1182
Customer 1183
Customer 1184
Customer 1185
Customer 1186
Customer 1187
Customer 1188
Customer 1189
Customer 1190
Customer 1191
Customer 1192
Customer 1193
Customer 1194
Customer 1195
Customer 1196
Customer 1197
Customer 1198
Customer 1199
Customer 1200

Restitution
Amount

$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$

117.30
202.00
331.99
223.84
560.24
209.50
434.98
489.50
126.82
199.95
171.34
215.50
118.77
115.98
101.34
133.71
157.73
139.85
257.03
116.88
1,766.97
125.50
473.18
740.00
198.79
261.86
183.11
574.00
107.62
399.36
127.09
1,022.47
126.64
185.19
195.15
202.33
142.09
161.42
150.00
143.52
135.00
140.03
118.72
168.13
943.02
123.00
466.48
121.60
230.26
1,310.40

Attachment A
Customer
Customer 1201
Customer 1202
Customer 1203
Customer 1204
Customer 1205
Customer 1206
Customer 1207
Customer 1208
Customer 1209
Customer 1210
Customer 1211
Customer 1212
Customer 1213
Customer 1214
Customer 1215
Customer 1216
Customer 1217
Customer 1218
Customer 1219
Customer 1220
Customer 1221
Customer 1222
Customer 1223
Customer 1224
Customer 1225
Customer 1226
Customer 1227
Customer 1228
Customer 1229
Customer 1230
Customer 1231
Customer 1232
Customer 1233
Customer 1234
Customer 1235
Customer 1236
Customer 1237
Customer 1238
Customer 1239
Customer 1240
Customer 1241
Customer 1242
Customer 1243
Customer 1244
Customer 1245
Customer 1246
Customer 1247
Customer 1248
Customer 1249
Customer 1250

Restitution
Amount

$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$

140.18
200.10
137.18
1,206.93
166.28
1,298.76
365.70
869.92
1,314.62
132.60
190.01
154.98
164.45
196.80
163.99
145.37
338.63
113.63
107.21
136.46
981.26
123.46
119.81
129.15
185.00
238.48
6,999.81
224.41
707.00
187.75
103.15
417.15
252.60
841.25
135.65
213.19
109.98
1,225.57
128.83
124.70
652.53
226.14
387.24
193.30
208.79
148.20
1,560.00
251.68
160.40
122.00

Customer
Customer 1251
Customer 1252
Customer 1253
Customer 1254
Customer 1255
Customer 1256
Customer 1257
Customer 1258
Customer 1259
Customer 1260
Customer 1261
Customer 1262
Customer 1263
Customer 1264
Customer 1265
Customer 1266
Customer 1267
Customer 1268
Customer 1269
Customer 1270
Customer 1271
Customer 1272
Customer 1273
Customer 1274
Customer 1275
Customer 1276
Customer 1277
Customer 1278
Customer 1279
Customer 1280
Customer 1281
Customer 1282
Customer 1283
Customer 1284
Customer 1285
Customer 1286
Customer 1287
Customer 1288
Customer 1289
Customer 1290
Customer 1291
Customer 1292
Customer 1293
Customer 1294
Customer 1295
Customer 1296
Customer 1297
Customer 1298
Customer 1299
Customer 1300

Restitution
Amount

$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$

172.08
154.52
443.21
338.31
520.78
202.40
136.10
138.72
114.00
132.37
204.68
217.65
111.57
114.69
182.50
105.21
137.99
139.76
260.12
1,450.47
128.91
112.50
167.16
125.64
249.28
150.26
137.25
421.37
916.60
142.24
146.37
109.15
375.75
355.00
264.00
241.29
272.19
132.67
186.29
159.58
579.29
102.00
287.67
343.54
101.91
167.78
207.54
129.21
1,846.83
110.90

Customer
Customer 1301
Customer 1302
Customer 1303
Customer 1304
Customer 1305
Customer 1306
Customer 1307
Customer 1308
Customer 1309
Customer 1310
Customer 1311
Customer 1312
Customer 1313
Customer 1314
Customer 1315
Customer 1316
Customer 1317
Customer 1318
Customer 1319
Customer 1320
Customer 1321
Customer 1322
Customer 1323
Customer 1324
Customer 1325
Customer 1326
Customer 1327
Customer 1328
Customer 1329
Customer 1330
Customer 1331
Customer 1332
Customer 1333
Customer 1334
Customer 1335
Customer 1336
Customer 1337
Customer 1338
Customer 1339
Customer 1340
Customer 1341
Customer 1342
Customer 1343
Customer 1344
Customer 1345
Customer 1346
Customer 1347
Customer 1348
Customer 1349
Customer 1350

Restitution
Amount

$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$

166.12
104.76
423.19
146.89
361.65
583.13
123.25
189.29
154.46
437.55
132.51
362.22
348.37
234.00
399.67
119.16
311.52
394.30
1,037.46
334.00
164.53
136.77
222.65
131.45
140.25
145.00
115.41
479.04
103.32
328.00
155.18
275.25
158.00
177.20
305.10
202.06
129.00
3,215.86
185.25
109.31
104.37
381.65
103.12
123.31
126.83
103.88
461.32
1,146.84
288.83
2,174.98

Attachment A
Customer
Customer 1351
Customer 1352
Customer 1353
Customer 1354
Customer 1355
Customer 1356
Customer 1357
Customer 1358
Customer 1359
Customer 1360
Customer 1361
Customer 1362
Customer 1363
Customer 1364
Customer 1365
Customer 1366
Customer 1367
Customer 1368
Customer 1369
Customer 1370
Customer 1371
Customer 1372
Customer 1373
Customer 1374
Customer 1375
Customer 1376
Customer 1377
Customer 1378
Customer 1379
Customer 1380
Customer 1381
Customer 1382
Customer 1383
Customer 1384
Customer 1385
Customer 1386
Customer 1387
Customer 1388
Customer 1389
Customer 1390
Customer 1391
Customer 1392
Customer 1393
Customer 1394
Customer 1395
Customer 1396
Customer 1397
Customer 1398
Customer 1399
Customer 1400

Restitution
Amount

$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$

109.22
146.85
237.59
104.11
555.84
104.18
124.84
279.60
113.56
105.00
231.75
159.10
152.14
475.23
214.80
136.10
106.15
364.00
406.68
246.78
110.78
227.58
100.23
227.61
264.00
140.11
515.94
151.59
110.88
124.71
203.05
180.13
1,472.44
616.73
107.00
369.50
106.74
107.88
591.00
111.80
1,652.00
124.05
107.59
283.00
168.00
237.92
136.09
137.86
316.20
115.50

Customer
Customer 1401
Customer 1402
Customer 1403
Customer 1404
Customer 1405
Customer 1406
Customer 1407
Customer 1408
Customer 1409
Customer 1410
Customer 1411
Customer 1412
Customer 1413
Customer 1414
Customer 1415
Customer 1416
Customer 1417
Customer 1418
Customer 1419
Customer 1420
Customer 1421
Customer 1422
Customer 1423
Customer 1424
Customer 1425
Customer 1426
Customer 1427
Customer 1428
Customer 1429
Customer 1430
Customer 1431
Customer 1432
Customer 1433
Customer 1434
Customer 1435
Customer 1436
Customer 1437
Customer 1438
Customer 1439
Customer 1440
Customer 1441
Customer 1442
Customer 1443
Customer 1444
Customer 1445
Customer 1446
Customer 1447
Customer 1448
Customer 1449
Customer 1450

Restitution
Amount

$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$

110.62
115.21
175.00
102.61
170.85
114.37
319.73
104.95
134.62
214.00
136.88
1,289.08
630.94
405.00
241.80
106.31
122.68
263.83
189.82
1,381.52
1,044.45
113.75
147.00
243.27
109.75
951.78
133.37
235.70
397.39
236.78
152.61
1,500.00
185.48
403.75
197.50
280.95
156.96
141.36
493.19
111.52
1,647.49
631.52
223.75
108.00
114.72
110.07
895.51
283.29
332.55
432.05

Customer
Customer 1451
Customer 1452
Customer 1453
Customer 1454
Customer 1455
Customer 1456
Customer 1457
Customer 1458
Customer 1459
Customer 1460
Customer 1461
Customer 1462
Customer 1463
Customer 1464
Customer 1465
Customer 1466
Customer 1467
Customer 1468
Customer 1469
Customer 1470
Customer 1471
Customer 1472
Customer 1473
Customer 1474
Customer 1475
Customer 1476
Customer 1477
Customer 1478
Customer 1479
Customer 1480
Customer 1481
Customer 1482
Customer 1483
Customer 1484
Customer 1485
Customer 1486
Customer 1487
Customer 1488
Customer 1489
Customer 1490
Customer 1491
Customer 1492
Customer 1493
Customer 1494
Customer 1495
Customer 1496
Customer 1497
Customer 1498
Customer 1499
Customer 1500

Restitution
Amount

$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$

264.73
548.80
167.60
245.34
668.93
182.95
394.70
316.36
144.42
121.93
158.75
124.25
216.66
263.00
164.64
286.79
119.04
111.35
232.30
222.34
189.27
137.86
137.25
1,348.52
308.72
119.35
2,988.98
128.69
108.00
117.99
192.99
1,017.21
210.00
339.92
401.57
1,190.61
120.19
101.75
114.17
260.80
109.31
309.14
709.53
149.53
476.02
177.30
258.00
172.27
192.73
1,207.00

Attachment A
Customer
Customer 1501
Customer 1502
Customer 1503
Customer 1504
Customer 1505
Customer 1506
Customer 1507
Customer 1508
Customer 1509
Customer 1510
Customer 1511
Customer 1512
Customer 1513
Customer 1514
Customer 1515
Customer 1516
Customer 1517
Customer 1518
Customer 1519
Customer 1520
Customer 1521
Customer 1522
Customer 1523
Customer 1524
Customer 1525
Customer 1526
Customer 1527
Customer 1528
Customer 1529
Customer 1530
Customer 1531
Customer 1532
Customer 1533
Customer 1534
Customer 1535
Customer 1536
Customer 1537
Customer 1538
Customer 1539
Customer 1540
Customer 1541
Customer 1542
Customer 1543
Customer 1544
Customer 1545
Customer 1546
Customer 1547
Customer 1548
Customer 1549
Customer 1550

Restitution
Amount

$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$

707.40
318.68
130.86
294.95
514.05
454.79
3,122.10
324.20
3,432.66
709.35
292.17
388.00
304.33
201.99
1,136.10
190.52
153.85
199.50
147.20
146.70
235.37
162.10
250.15
253.46
377.00
462.98
306.00
2,392.30
440.39
250.67
140.32
195.47
122.02
139.40
565.61
101.98
535.74
260.47
234.90
2,561.79
103.94
393.50
145.56
156.50
417.00
1,796.92
221.77
222.76
160.35
144.06

Customer
Customer 1551
Customer 1552
Customer 1553
Customer 1554
Customer 1555
Customer 1556
Customer 1557
Customer 1558
Customer 1559
Customer 1560
Customer 1561
Customer 1562
Customer 1563
Customer 1564
Customer 1565
Customer 1566
Customer 1567
Customer 1568
Customer 1569
Customer 1570
Customer 1571
Customer 1572
Customer 1573
Customer 1574
Customer 1575
Customer 1576
Customer 1577
Customer 1578
Customer 1579
Customer 1580
Customer 1581
Customer 1582
Customer 1583
Customer 1584
Customer 1585
Customer 1586
Customer 1587
Customer 1588
Customer 1589
Customer 1590
Customer 1591
Customer 1592
Customer 1593
Customer 1594
Customer 1595
Customer 1596
Customer 1597
Customer 1598
Customer 1599
Customer 1600

Restitution
Amount

$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$

859.46
1,426.01
149.65
819.04
115.58
110.10
209.95
124.48
100.99
196.30
111.20
102.04
601.00
156.54
200.92
113.18
400.00
466.16
241.90
129.90
135.38
329.59
133.97
328.24
288.77
459.51
315.50
165.00
109.40
749.00
152.46
147.12
560.00
253.80
838.21
340.01
144.06
116.65
695.97
120.63
278.57
103.11
307.31
950.00
924.91
130.99
189.75
166.75
341.51
450.08

Customer
Customer 1601
Customer 1602
Customer 1603
Customer 1604
Customer 1605
Customer 1606
Customer 1607
Customer 1608
Customer 1609
Customer 1610
Customer 1611
Customer 1612
Customer 1613
Customer 1614
Customer 1615
Customer 1616
Customer 1617
Customer 1618
Customer 1619
Customer 1620
Customer 1621
Customer 1622
Customer 1623
Customer 1624
Customer 1625
Customer 1626
Customer 1627
Customer 1628
Customer 1629
Customer 1630
Customer 1631
Customer 1632
Customer 1633
Customer 1634
Customer 1635
Customer 1636
Customer 1637
Customer 1638
Customer 1639
Customer 1640
Customer 1641
Customer 1642
Customer 1643
Customer 1644
Customer 1645
Customer 1646
Customer 1647
Customer 1648
Customer 1649
Customer 1650

Restitution
Amount

$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$

156.00
1,597.54
153.68
122.42
456.06
239.15
361.77
1,904.71
155.80
672.18
434.50
402.46
298.99
299.86
107.79
291.60
126.00
121.65
151.30
107.76
155.50
151.62
131.73
269.00
124.44
105.38
434.92
106.35
107.57
597.28
188.27
133.78
210.50
105.99
254.85
4,938.13
421.48
234.95
179.57
318.75
112.95
196.41
155.35
6,046.02
161.34
218.59
442.83
109.20
388.11
190.52

Attachment A
Customer
Customer 1651
Customer 1652
Customer 1653
Customer 1654
Customer 1655
Customer 1656
Customer 1657
Customer 1658
Customer 1659
Customer 1660
Customer 1661
Customer 1662
Customer 1663
Customer 1664
Customer 1665
Customer 1666
Customer 1667
Customer 1668
Customer 1669
Customer 1670
Customer 1671
Customer 1672
Customer 1673
Customer 1674
Customer 1675
Customer 1676
Customer 1677
Customer 1678
Customer 1679
Customer 1680
Customer 1681
Customer 1682
Customer 1683
Customer 1684
Customer 1685
Customer 1686
Customer 1687
Customer 1688
Customer 1689
Customer 1690
Customer 1691
Customer 1692
Customer 1693
Customer 1694
Customer 1695
Customer 1696
Customer 1697
Customer 1698
Customer 1699
Customer 1700

Restitution
Amount

$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$

171.00
147.74
339.45
154.06
133.56
913.01
555.54
137.21
385.00
106.21
440.62
108.33
123.60
352.20
238.00
354.70
332.50
189.54
263.56
116.22
322.38
146.88
144.37
101.99
114.00
211.09
239.31
142.98
421.09
179.35
106.62
554.80
112.00
266.47
2,501.35
112.50
352.08
333.50
116.88
200.00
124.87
2,266.60
270.50
624.87
747.96
669.90
231.89
143.60
180.57
130.61

Customer
Customer 1701
Customer 1702
Customer 1703
Customer 1704
Customer 1705
Customer 1706
Customer 1707
Customer 1708
Customer 1709
Customer 1710
Customer 1711
Customer 1712
Customer 1713
Customer 1714
Customer 1715
Customer 1716
Customer 1717
Customer 1718
Customer 1719
Customer 1720
Customer 1721
Customer 1722
Customer 1723
Customer 1724
Customer 1725
Customer 1726
Customer 1727
Customer 1728
Customer 1729
Customer 1730
Customer 1731
Customer 1732
Customer 1733
Customer 1734
Customer 1735
Customer 1736
Customer 1737
Customer 1738
Customer 1739
Customer 1740
Customer 1741
Customer 1742
Customer 1743
Customer 1744
Customer 1745
Customer 1746
Customer 1747
Customer 1748
Customer 1749
Customer 1750

Restitution
Amount

$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$

101.25
100.85
347.42
120.30
188.68
353.22
214.72
133.68
111.00
170.69
426.58
170.62
104.49
143.45
496.74
302.37
238.95
138.85
262.61
415.80
102.50
129.84
100.58
736.36
144.97
745.68
128.28
197.50
148.75
310.00
224.30
100.50
114.85
117.75
177.80
261.14
104.52
105.11
367.52
167.80
106.61
142.03
307.14
128.03
147.83
227.74
112.84
1,013.65
510.21
118.37

Customer
Customer 1751
Customer 1752
Customer 1753
Customer 1754
Customer 1755
Customer 1756
Customer 1757
Customer 1758
Customer 1759
Customer 1760
Customer 1761
Customer 1762
Customer 1763
Customer 1764
Customer 1765
Customer 1766
Customer 1767
Customer 1768
Customer 1769
Customer 1770
Customer 1771
Customer 1772
Customer 1773
Customer 1774
Customer 1775
Customer 1776
Customer 1777
Customer 1778
Customer 1779
Customer 1780
Customer 1781
Customer 1782
Customer 1783
Customer 1784
Customer 1785
Customer 1786
Customer 1787
Customer 1788
Customer 1789
Customer 1790
Customer 1791
Customer 1792
Customer 1793
Customer 1794
Customer 1795
Customer 1796
Customer 1797
Customer 1798
Customer 1799
Customer 1800

Restitution
Amount

$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$

3,945.63
110.16
108.90
203.28
177.45
377.19
128.53
114.51
175.06
131.32
1,119.78
110.87
118.49
131.42
148.66
341.24
5,340.65
409.66
158.18
1,283.47
183.42
400.75
163.80
126.35
169.10
140.86
115.21
408.45
113.44
255.78
151.02
310.88
123.94
120.00
418.54
191.33
108.07
153.80
157.56
494.30
105.10
3,675.50
135.08
133.95
758.58
126.87
108.68
106.96
132.27
120.16

Attachment A
Customer
Customer 1801
Customer 1802
Customer 1803
Customer 1804
Customer 1805
Customer 1806
Customer 1807
Customer 1808
Customer 1809
Customer 1810
Customer 1811
Customer 1812
Customer 1813
Customer 1814
Customer 1815
Customer 1816
Customer 1817
Customer 1818
Customer 1819
Customer 1820
Customer 1821
Customer 1822
Customer 1823
Customer 1824
Customer 1825
Customer 1826
Customer 1827
Customer 1828
Customer 1829
Customer 1830
Customer 1831
Customer 1832
Customer 1833
Customer 1834
Customer 1835
Customer 1836
Customer 1837
Customer 1838
Customer 1839
Customer 1840
Customer 1841
Customer 1842
Customer 1843
Customer 1844
Customer 1845
Customer 1846
Customer 1847
Customer 1848
Customer 1849
Customer 1850

Restitution
Amount

$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$

534.50
161.75
161.56
149.40
1,038.81
167.12
162.74
274.45
130.07
143.69
295.96
204.03
156.45
1,237.00
280.64
190.54
114.32
317.20
298.28
117.22
101.25
132.14
126.00
131.71
205.96
249.23
373.78
189.76
165.83
1,230.00
126.26
118.26
337.60
498.48
1,629.83
187.95
683.60
283.27
131.31
491.41
100.70
330.50
148.35
345.92
134.40
171.09
107.51
252.39
154.84
120.12

Customer
Customer 1851
Customer 1852
Customer 1853
Customer 1854
Customer 1855
Customer 1856
Customer 1857
Customer 1858
Customer 1859
Customer 1860
Customer 1861
Customer 1862
Customer 1863
Customer 1864
Customer 1865
Customer 1866
Customer 1867
Customer 1868
Customer 1869
Customer 1870
Customer 1871
Customer 1872
Customer 1873
Customer 1874
Customer 1875
Customer 1876
Customer 1877
Customer 1878
Customer 1879
Customer 1880
Customer 1881
Customer 1882
Customer 1883
Customer 1884
Customer 1885
Customer 1886
Customer 1887
Customer 1888
Customer 1889
Customer 1890
Customer 1891
Customer 1892
Customer 1893
Customer 1894
Customer 1895
Customer 1896
Customer 1897
Customer 1898
Customer 1899
Customer 1900

Restitution
Amount

$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$

142.45
184.34
306.33
419.48
112.51
1,229.40
7,481.35
116.76
253.36
129.43
100.44
236.97
126.45
278.19
1,070.41
508.85
173.59
103.84
147.30
117.88
997.50
112.14
118.00
739.95
123.52
156.24
180.90
180.40
294.00
158.34
162.39
845.56
125.50
676.60
132.25
114.94
955.71
261.73
880.00
300.72
110.02
367.35
163.87
1,062.32
2,010.82
196.90
156.50
255.24
112.77
3,406.79

Customer
Customer 1901
Customer 1902
Customer 1903
Customer 1904
Customer 1905
Customer 1906
Customer 1907
Customer 1908
Customer 1909
Customer 1910
Customer 1911
Customer 1912
Customer 1913
Customer 1914
Customer 1915
Customer 1916
Customer 1917
Customer 1918
Customer 1919
Customer 1920
Customer 1921
Customer 1922
Customer 1923
Customer 1924
Customer 1925
Customer 1926
Customer 1927
Customer 1928
Customer 1929
Customer 1930
Customer 1931
Customer 1932
Customer 1933
Customer 1934
Customer 1935
Customer 1936
Customer 1937
Customer 1938
Customer 1939
Customer 1940
Customer 1941
Customer 1942
Customer 1943
Customer 1944
Customer 1945
Customer 1946
Customer 1947
Customer 1948
Customer 1949
Customer 1950

Restitution
Amount

$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$

211.57
208.20
187.20
426.06
466.39
162.50
259.58
253.08
370.85
183.29
107.14
137.24
225.76
378.57
210.43
298.03
681.00
323.00
303.44
149.70
310.00
145.00
485.80
144.62
466.79
210.98
505.50
259.00
105.49
308.22
150.07
242.55
343.27
113.37
105.98
243.00
151.11
390.18
223.64
909.34
195.38
245.77
300.00
145.61
206.50
1,200.01
101.90
229.35
955.78
445.60

Attachment A
Customer
Customer 1951
Customer 1952
Customer 1953
Customer 1954
Customer 1955
Customer 1956
Customer 1957
Customer 1958
Customer 1959
Customer 1960
Customer 1961
Customer 1962
Customer 1963
Customer 1964
Customer 1965
Customer 1966
Customer 1967
Customer 1968
Customer 1969
Customer 1970
Customer 1971
Customer 1972
Customer 1973
Customer 1974
Customer 1975
Customer 1976
Customer 1977
Customer 1978
Customer 1979
Customer 1980
Customer 1981
Customer 1982
Customer 1983
Customer 1984
Customer 1985
Customer 1986
Customer 1987
Customer 1988
Customer 1989
Customer 1990
Customer 1991
Customer 1992
Customer 1993
Customer 1994
Customer 1995
Customer 1996
Customer 1997
Customer 1998
Customer 1999
Customer 2000

Restitution
Amount

$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$

112.80
424.16
385.31
106.84
111.53
311.64
150.63
109.41
204.85
113.59
327.83
131.96
101.00
182.18
110.00
123.60
409.78
367.71
133.53
279.99
322.20
1,547.00
559.50
144.86
262.50
201.64
633.50
120.37
176.00
1,370.96
127.20
304.00
755.49
159.95
278.34
238.44
100.35
355.83
203.50
105.86
101.05
292.80
1,645.18
188.70
134.09
306.86
1,997.47
115.65
616.20
192.28

Customer
Customer 2001
Customer 2002
Customer 2003
Customer 2004
Customer 2005
Customer 2006
Customer 2007
Customer 2008
Customer 2009
Customer 2010
Customer 2011
Customer 2012
Customer 2013
Customer 2014
Customer 2015
Customer 2016
Customer 2017
Customer 2018
Customer 2019
Customer 2020
Customer 2021
Customer 2022
Customer 2023
Customer 2024
Customer 2025
Customer 2026
Customer 2027
Customer 2028
Customer 2029
Customer 2030
Customer 2031
Customer 2032
Customer 2033
Customer 2034
Customer 2035
Customer 2036
Customer 2037
Customer 2038
Customer 2039
Customer 2040
Customer 2041
Customer 2042
Customer 2043
Customer 2044
Customer 2045
Customer 2046
Customer 2047
Customer 2048
Customer 2049
Customer 2050

Restitution
Amount

$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$

252.63
842.29
3,360.86
948.50
429.80
1,158.54
165.07
435.49
447.30
281.82
110.88
227.25
270.68
121.30
562.75
137.89
792.06
168.69
619.99
1,561.11
286.79
130.00
230.40
355.05
116.37
144.94
132.90
846.80
127.49
921.41
432.39
469.40
158.93
112.85
111.54
310.77
4,778.42
128.70
274.08
1,171.17
224.92
418.52
148.71
570.89
352.92
156.18
127.25
130.46
828.00
1,600.18

Customer
Customer 2051
Customer 2052
Customer 2053
Customer 2054
Customer 2055
Customer 2056
Customer 2057
Customer 2058
Customer 2059
Customer 2060
Customer 2061
Customer 2062
Customer 2063
Customer 2064
Customer 2065
Customer 2066
Customer 2067
Customer 2068
Customer 2069
Customer 2070
Customer 2071
Customer 2072
Customer 2073
Customer 2074
Customer 2075
Customer 2076
Customer 2077
Customer 2078
Customer 2079
Customer 2080
Customer 2081
Customer 2082
Customer 2083
Customer 2084
Customer 2085
Customer 2086
Customer 2087
Customer 2088
Customer 2089
Customer 2090
Customer 2091
Customer 2092
Customer 2093
Customer 2094
Customer 2095
Customer 2096
Customer 2097
Customer 2098
Customer 2099
Customer 2100

Restitution
Amount

$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$

166.50
103.80
445.50
233.22
217.47
135.24
349.00
106.31
108.12
360.84
136.00
113.63
161.76
246.00
266.18
149.80
150.00
243.00
910.79
206.91
129.60
134.21
163.60
264.22
177.02
177.33
126.65
214.40
157.30
2,763.14
105.59
327.87
605.00
257.03
1,127.84
218.00
226.68
174.09
163.95
156.97
119.56
696.33
297.97
148.32
322.51
111.60
319.60
201.67
273.20
150.75

Attachment A
Customer
Customer 2101
Customer 2102
Customer 2103
Customer 2104
Customer 2105
Customer 2106
Customer 2107
Customer 2108
Customer 2109
Customer 2110
Customer 2111
Customer 2112
Customer 2113
Customer 2114
Customer 2115
Customer 2116
Customer 2117
Customer 2118
Customer 2119
Customer 2120
Customer 2121
Customer 2122
Customer 2123
Customer 2124
Customer 2125
Customer 2126
Customer 2127
Customer 2128
Customer 2129
Customer 2130
Customer 2131
Customer 2132
Customer 2133
Customer 2134
Customer 2135
Customer 2136
Customer 2137
Customer 2138
Customer 2139
Customer 2140
Customer 2141
Customer 2142
Customer 2143
Customer 2144
Customer 2145
Customer 2146
Customer 2147
Customer 2148
Customer 2149
Customer 2150

Restitution
Amount

$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$

105.94
249.61
101.64
288.79
266.28
283.11
5,309.53
728.10
218.59
102.08
224.18
121.11
216.24
649.50
250.75
233.47
314.72
286.70
114.73
130.34
414.75
527.00
393.30
138.33
198.87
529.80
697.00
104.66
243.00
719.69
564.00
136.70
150.00
113.51
428.85
1,090.42
246.71
199.98
179.05
164.55
196.93
129.00
175.05
256.00
257.92
136.55
125.60
112.99
867.91
219.28

Customer
Customer 2151
Customer 2152
Customer 2153
Customer 2154
Customer 2155
Customer 2156
Customer 2157
Customer 2158
Customer 2159
Customer 2160
Customer 2161
Customer 2162
Customer 2163
Customer 2164
Customer 2165
Customer 2166
Customer 2167
Customer 2168
Customer 2169
Customer 2170
Customer 2171
Customer 2172
Customer 2173
Customer 2174
Customer 2175
Customer 2176
Customer 2177
Customer 2178
Customer 2179
Customer 2180
Customer 2181
Customer 2182
Customer 2183
Customer 2184
Customer 2185
Customer 2186
Customer 2187
Customer 2188
Customer 2189
Customer 2190
Customer 2191
Customer 2192
Customer 2193
Customer 2194
Customer 2195
Customer 2196
Customer 2197
Customer 2198
Customer 2199
Customer 2200

Restitution
Amount

$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$

134.47
208.80
542.21
311.20
231.42
434.70
129.00
2,417.21
144.00
822.24
189.53
139.92
758.19
321.00
183.69
162.27
138.59
157.50
345.92
238.01
258.69
210.22
116.26
133.64
642.24
116.96
164.57
102.86
227.50
208.63
124.90
166.11
688.07
329.36
142.88
619.22
424.18
199.19
150.65
115.75
120.59
256.30
842.00
160.28
129.37
209.92
282.05
111.09
186.84
196.16

Customer
Customer 2201
Customer 2202
Customer 2203
Customer 2204
Customer 2205
Customer 2206
Customer 2207
Customer 2208
Customer 2209
Customer 2210
Customer 2211
Customer 2212
Customer 2213
Customer 2214
Customer 2215
Customer 2216
Customer 2217
Customer 2218
Customer 2219
Customer 2220
Customer 2221
Customer 2222
Customer 2223
Customer 2224
Customer 2225
Customer 2226
Customer 2227
Customer 2228
Customer 2229
Customer 2230
Customer 2231
Customer 2232
Customer 2233
Customer 2234
Customer 2235
Customer 2236
Customer 2237
Customer 2238
Customer 2239
Customer 2240
Customer 2241
Customer 2242
Customer 2243
Customer 2244
Customer 2245
Customer 2246
Customer 2247
Customer 2248
Customer 2249
Customer 2250

Restitution
Amount

$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$

166.97
104.95
597.87
225.92
100.65
129.71
1,088.55
568.14
135.32
411.38
138.08
160.45
343.50
290.30
2,166.67
15,541.50
287.20
116.24
172.91
257.52
224.40
193.23
124.79
203.61
171.50
108.45
262.49
135.25
103.74
137.95
259.59
341.64
153.88
143.28
164.69
226.00
166.07
125.52
107.88
286.18
101.80
240.56
119.72
3,342.75
135.74
106.48
105.43
157.95
205.98
112.84

Attachment A
Customer
Customer 2251
Customer 2252
Customer 2253
Customer 2254
Customer 2255
Customer 2256
Customer 2257
Customer 2258
Customer 2259
Customer 2260
Customer 2261
Customer 2262
Customer 2263
Customer 2264
Customer 2265
Customer 2266
Customer 2267
Customer 2268
Customer 2269
Customer 2270
Customer 2271
Customer 2272
Customer 2273
Customer 2274
Customer 2275
Customer 2276
Customer 2277
Customer 2278
Customer 2279
Customer 2280
Customer 2281
Customer 2282
Customer 2283
Customer 2284
Customer 2285
Customer 2286
Customer 2287
Customer 2288
Customer 2289
Customer 2290
Customer 2291
Customer 2292
Customer 2293
Customer 2294
Customer 2295
Customer 2296
Customer 2297
Customer 2298
Customer 2299
Customer 2300

Restitution
Amount

$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$

364.00
115.33
100.50
154.41
372.76
122.45
158.32
212.50
136.16
793.55
298.61
174.73
101.44
413.10
596.40
115.95
113.25
691.60
1,330.19
125.50
122.20
474.00
193.11
125.70
1,157.26
1,015.70
117.59
341.14
299.88
114.38
3,210.65
131.65
136.10
134.09
102.78
1,894.07
124.57
113.38
114.49
125.20
196.75
225.38
270.44
339.56
114.54
113.10
127.39
6,497.63
180.77
127.60

Customer
Customer 2301
Customer 2302
Customer 2303
Customer 2304
Customer 2305
Customer 2306
Customer 2307
Customer 2308
Customer 2309
Customer 2310
Customer 2311
Customer 2312
Customer 2313
Customer 2314
Customer 2315
Customer 2316
Customer 2317
Customer 2318
Customer 2319
Customer 2320
Customer 2321
Customer 2322
Customer 2323
Customer 2324
Customer 2325
Customer 2326
Customer 2327
Customer 2328
Customer 2329
Customer 2330
Customer 2331
Customer 2332
Customer 2333
Customer 2334
Customer 2335
Customer 2336
Customer 2337
Customer 2338
Customer 2339
Customer 2340
Customer 2341
Customer 2342
Customer 2343
Customer 2344
Customer 2345
Customer 2346
Customer 2347
Customer 2348
Customer 2349
Customer 2350

Restitution
Amount

$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$

306.53
501.00
206.33
185.96
1,077.17
176.68
464.14
441.71
535.77
2,274.08
166.19
127.54
216.50
224.90
166.08
318.21
122.57
403.50
247.25
114.67
312.36
407.75
144.35
132.53
124.79
251.91
260.49
410.85
389.50
158.52
355.12
118.23
287.34
362.55
112.00
282.13
749.90
386.29
822.70
1,239.77
166.62
248.74
459.00
247.74
111.90
127.92
251.40
122.55
208.71
176.00

Customer
Customer 2351
Customer 2352
Customer 2353
Customer 2354
Customer 2355
Customer 2356
Customer 2357
Customer 2358
Customer 2359
Customer 2360
Customer 2361
Customer 2362
Customer 2363
Customer 2364
Customer 2365
Customer 2366
Customer 2367
Customer 2368
Customer 2369
Customer 2370
Customer 2371
Customer 2372
Customer 2373
Customer 2374
Customer 2375
Customer 2376
Customer 2377
Customer 2378
Customer 2379
Customer 2380
Customer 2381
Customer 2382
Customer 2383
Customer 2384
Customer 2385
Customer 2386
Customer 2387
Customer 2388
Customer 2389
Customer 2390
Customer 2391
Customer 2392
Customer 2393
Customer 2394
Customer 2395
Customer 2396
Customer 2397
Customer 2398
Customer 2399
Customer 2400

Restitution
Amount

$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$

1,122.66
140.29
190.00
147.68
114.00
761.54
171.00
101.90
155.57
334.34
209.93
890.82
119.65
176.61
114.60
106.38
142.72
210.51
1,106.29
179.05
119.77
133.38
131.08
149.00
199.68
109.00
476.86
134.00
105.66
118.30
139.36
130.50
204.73
290.91
279.12
2,272.43
244.43
162.36
141.51
122.45
177.00
145.95
122.73
462.70
111.77
119.24
2,500.44
684.19
125.30
124.70

Attachment A
Customer
Customer 2401
Customer 2402
Customer 2403
Customer 2404
Customer 2405
Customer 2406
Customer 2407
Customer 2408
Customer 2409
Customer 2410
Customer 2411
Customer 2412
Customer 2413
Customer 2414
Customer 2415
Customer 2416
Customer 2417
Customer 2418
Customer 2419
Customer 2420
Customer 2421
Customer 2422
Customer 2423
Customer 2424
Customer 2425
Customer 2426
Customer 2427
Customer 2428
Customer 2429
Customer 2430
Customer 2431
Customer 2432
Customer 2433
Customer 2434
Customer 2435
Customer 2436
Customer 2437
Customer 2438
Customer 2439
Customer 2440
Customer 2441
Customer 2442
Customer 2443
Customer 2444
Customer 2445
Customer 2446
Customer 2447
Customer 2448
Customer 2449
Customer 2450

Restitution
Amount

$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$

251.20
456.16
114.86
101.96
1,140.04
125.18
1,227.85
287.35
371.99
165.00
392.92
180.20
170.40
252.27
100.59
280.00
642.76
745.04
391.71
356.45
161.56
925.00
220.62
168.35
1,260.00
1,157.50
126.84
563.85
974.74
914.32
909.71
20,623.80
113.12
133.00
200.58
118.40
120.91
307.50
625.55
369.49
125.60
216.94
163.20
171.75
112.49
194.43
185.09
497.13
237.01
109.20

Customer
Customer 2451
Customer 2452
Customer 2453
Customer 2454
Customer 2455
Customer 2456
Customer 2457
Customer 2458
Customer 2459
Customer 2460
Customer 2461
Customer 2462
Customer 2463
Customer 2464
Customer 2465
Customer 2466
Customer 2467
Customer 2468
Customer 2469
Customer 2470
Customer 2471
Customer 2472
Customer 2473
Customer 2474
Customer 2475
Customer 2476
Customer 2477
Customer 2478
Customer 2479
Customer 2480
Customer 2481
Customer 2482
Customer 2483
Customer 2484
Customer 2485
Customer 2486
Customer 2487
Customer 2488
Customer 2489
Customer 2490
Customer 2491
Customer 2492
Customer 2493
Customer 2494
Customer 2495
Customer 2496
Customer 2497
Customer 2498
Customer 2499
Customer 2500

Restitution
Amount

$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$

161.72
133.83
944.89
154.35
131.72
742.50
231.00
112.60
131.70
265.99
208.94
118.10
639.54
220.32
143.67
101.50
297.39
357.75
931.52
100.38
226.05
117.75
315.65
270.54
196.10
149.50
217.25
209.00
437.38
286.89
214.90
405.55
110.75
111.19
246.44
561.77
236.54
182.85
460.18
968.63
197.39
186.84
280.71
193.20
116.64
156.33
237.86
315.79
121.50
343.00

Customer
Customer 2501
Customer 2502
Customer 2503
Customer 2504
Customer 2505
Customer 2506
Customer 2507
Customer 2508
Customer 2509
Customer 2510
Customer 2511
Customer 2512
Customer 2513
Customer 2514
Customer 2515
Customer 2516
Customer 2517
Customer 2518
Customer 2519
Customer 2520
Customer 2521
Customer 2522
Customer 2523
Customer 2524
Customer 2525
Customer 2526
Customer 2527
Customer 2528
Customer 2529
Customer 2530
Customer 2531
Customer 2532
Customer 2533
Customer 2534
Customer 2535
Customer 2536
Customer 2537
Customer 2538
Customer 2539
Customer 2540
Customer 2541
Customer 2542
Customer 2543
Customer 2544
Customer 2545
Customer 2546
Customer 2547
Customer 2548
Customer 2549
Customer 2550

Restitution
Amount

$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$

196.55
136.43
165.93
1,383.36
197.98
126.68
142.03
120.52
324.75
212.09
472.33
148.90
115.70
344.10
207.36
213.45
429.00
161.71
270.00
139.02
222.60
299.99
2,326.47
136.50
469.00
163.48
160.95
516.00
150.57
379.92
136.40
194.10
468.43
199.88
109.05
117.48
367.78
168.72
132.00
118.64
333.34
8,675.54
1,022.50
1,007.76
613.30
103.36
186.03
203.50
358.28
176.40

Attachment A
Customer
Customer 2551
Customer 2552
Customer 2553
Customer 2554
Customer 2555
Customer 2556
Customer 2557
Customer 2558
Customer 2559
Customer 2560
Customer 2561
Customer 2562
Customer 2563
Customer 2564
Customer 2565
Customer 2566
Customer 2567
Customer 2568
Customer 2569
Customer 2570
Customer 2571
Customer 2572
Customer 2573
Customer 2574
Customer 2575
Customer 2576
Customer 2577
Customer 2578
Customer 2579
Customer 2580
Customer 2581
Customer 2582
Customer 2583
Customer 2584
Customer 2585
Customer 2586
Customer 2587
Customer 2588
Customer 2589
Customer 2590
Customer 2591
Customer 2592
Customer 2593
Customer 2594
Customer 2595
Customer 2596
Customer 2597
Customer 2598
Customer 2599
Customer 2600

Restitution
Amount

$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$

1,370.55
102.00
236.57
132.45
183.85
2,069.00
529.52
988.72
262.02
217.90
112.00
101.95
100.50
127.50
786.05
342.73
296.32
167.65
289.49
244.00
970.00
213.70
10,843.77
208.80
1,602.05
116.50
113.31
211.00
269.86
102.06
121.00
361.78
186.69
101.70
459.29
130.37
1,783.47
120.46
132.42
721.47
130.55
239.33
115.84
114.50
501.31
262.26
136.71
120.66
101.91
993.03

Customer
Customer 2601
Customer 2602
Customer 2603
Customer 2604
Customer 2605
Customer 2606
Customer 2607
Customer 2608
Customer 2609
Customer 2610
Customer 2611
Customer 2612
Customer 2613
Customer 2614
Customer 2615
Customer 2616
Customer 2617
Customer 2618
Customer 2619
Customer 2620
Customer 2621
Customer 2622
Customer 2623
Customer 2624
Customer 2625
Customer 2626
Customer 2627
Customer 2628
Customer 2629
Customer 2630
Customer 2631
Customer 2632
Customer 2633
Customer 2634
Customer 2635
Customer 2636
Customer 2637
Customer 2638
Customer 2639
Customer 2640
Customer 2641
Customer 2642
Customer 2643
Customer 2644
Customer 2645
Customer 2646
Customer 2647
Customer 2648
Customer 2649
Customer 2650

Restitution
Amount

$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$

250.30
197.73
134.57
486.08
150.98
4,712.62
147.00
1,597.85
343.33
232.30
383.76
146.74
107.85
107.81
177.06
150.79
193.35
162.45
139.28
135.95
286.18
163.40
1,075.00
163.34
118.12
106.43
187.20
350.00
107.27
102.85
143.76
102.81
1,702.09
207.90
385.00
128.01
108.99
417.51
108.00
199.28
480.76
100.28
208.30
270.00
396.00
230.10
161.92
184.00
231.43
158.37

Customer
Customer 2651
Customer 2652
Customer 2653
Customer 2654
Customer 2655
Customer 2656
Customer 2657
Customer 2658
Customer 2659
Customer 2660
Customer 2661
Customer 2662
Customer 2663
Customer 2664
Customer 2665
Customer 2666
Customer 2667
Customer 2668
Customer 2669
Customer 2670
Customer 2671
Customer 2672
Customer 2673
Customer 2674
Customer 2675
Customer 2676
Customer 2677
Customer 2678
Customer 2679
Customer 2680
Customer 2681
Customer 2682
Customer 2683
Customer 2684
Customer 2685
Customer 2686
Customer 2687
Customer 2688
Customer 2689
Customer 2690
Customer 2691
Customer 2692
Customer 2693
Customer 2694
Customer 2695
Customer 2696
Customer 2697
Customer 2698
Customer 2699
Customer 2700

Restitution
Amount

$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$

200.57
100.89
1,039.00
340.14
648.50
226.65
101.94
725.40
419.55
100.20
130.14
341.24
375.00
253.11
117.56
182.63
405.60
151.10
214.35
287.23
348.65
201.75
1,114.62
333.03
116.00
102.76
149.55
180.65
216.27
111.22
201.04
178.53
179.30
281.25
122.95
126.44
101.54
136.04
121.93
117.35
445.33
142.47
166.96
272.92
200.90
172.43
349.40
112.68
113.48
614.00

Attachment A
Customer
Customer 2701
Customer 2702
Customer 2703
Customer 2704
Customer 2705
Customer 2706
Customer 2707
Customer 2708
Customer 2709
Customer 2710
Customer 2711
Customer 2712
Customer 2713
Customer 2714
Customer 2715
Customer 2716
Customer 2717
Customer 2718
Customer 2719
Customer 2720
Customer 2721
Customer 2722
Customer 2723
Customer 2724
Customer 2725
Customer 2726
Customer 2727
Customer 2728
Customer 2729
Customer 2730
Customer 2731
Customer 2732
Customer 2733
Customer 2734
Customer 2735
Customer 2736
Customer 2737
Customer 2738
Customer 2739
Customer 2740
Customer 2741
Customer 2742
Customer 2743
Customer 2744
Customer 2745
Customer 2746
Customer 2747
Customer 2748
Customer 2749
Customer 2750

Restitution
Amount

$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$

316.50
471.20
135.32
152.98
107.50
135.43
362.10
147.90
180.00
118.35
112.10
136.00
112.82
244.50
153.21
280.12
215.50
138.48
129.60
170.02
570.03
123.49
118.08
131.85
273.97
190.00
396.61
103.01
699.09
180.70
205.20
818.25
571.96
603.00
185.38
264.18
341.58
206.79
874.84
125.39
225.75
584.80
169.00
158.63
148.08
284.04
290.95
188.50
130.61
115.48

Customer
Customer 2751
Customer 2752
Customer 2753
Customer 2754
Customer 2755
Customer 2756
Customer 2757
Customer 2758
Customer 2759
Customer 2760
Customer 2761
Customer 2762
Customer 2763
Customer 2764
Customer 2765
Customer 2766
Customer 2767
Customer 2768
Customer 2769
Customer 2770
Customer 2771
Customer 2772
Customer 2773
Customer 2774
Customer 2775
Customer 2776
Customer 2777
Customer 2778
Customer 2779
Customer 2780
Customer 2781
Customer 2782
Customer 2783
Customer 2784
Customer 2785
Customer 2786
Customer 2787
Customer 2788
Customer 2789
Customer 2790
Customer 2791
Customer 2792
Customer 2793
Customer 2794
Customer 2795
Customer 2796
Customer 2797
Customer 2798
Customer 2799
Customer 2800

Restitution
Amount

$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$

115.88
100.02
175.99
413.78
409.50
223.33
175.42
150.80
141.21
197.60
1,051.23
348.75
230.39
120.08
225.51
136.43
125.31
138.26
148.23
163.52
346.17
741.34
325.71
140.70
110.00
122.92
107.25
251.54
121.19
153.51
2,307.08
237.50
181.83
130.55
123.45
206.55
135.88
204.00
116.90
192.95
101.74
173.38
128.85
138.50
136.10
300.88
332.48
314.14
508.50
156.50

Customer
Customer 2801
Customer 2802
Customer 2803
Customer 2804
Customer 2805
Customer 2806
Customer 2807
Customer 2808
Customer 2809
Customer 2810
Customer 2811
Customer 2812
Customer 2813
Customer 2814
Customer 2815
Customer 2816
Customer 2817
Customer 2818
Customer 2819
Customer 2820
Customer 2821
Customer 2822
Customer 2823
Customer 2824
Customer 2825
Customer 2826
Customer 2827
Customer 2828
Customer 2829
Customer 2830
Customer 2831
Customer 2832
Customer 2833
Customer 2834
Customer 2835
Customer 2836
Customer 2837
Customer 2838
Customer 2839
Customer 2840
Customer 2841
Customer 2842
Customer 2843
Customer 2844
Customer 2845
Customer 2846
Customer 2847
Customer 2848
Customer 2849
Customer 2850

Restitution
Amount

$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$

569.97
160.12
120.92
182.00
192.50
7,241.66
111.17
151.70
341.07
2,151.60
138.64
170.80
590.00
152.55
257.04
168.99
2,186.17
603.83
259.12
771.50
160.11
506.79
151.51
143.30
187.28
135.98
244.88
115.88
202.41
260.28
138.25
142.47
187.95
257.75
110.31
377.50
109.40
343.99
518.10
107.38
115.18
202.98
156.00
512.50
1,043.78
151.65
110.02
792.00
142.22
305.71

Attachment A
Customer
Customer 2851
Customer 2852
Customer 2853
Customer 2854
Customer 2855
Customer 2856
Customer 2857
Customer 2858
Customer 2859
Customer 2860
Customer 2861
Customer 2862
Customer 2863
Customer 2864
Customer 2865
Customer 2866
Customer 2867
Customer 2868
Customer 2869
Customer 2870
Customer 2871
Customer 2872
Customer 2873
Customer 2874
Customer 2875
Customer 2876
Customer 2877
Customer 2878
Customer 2879
Customer 2880
Customer 2881
Customer 2882
Customer 2883
Customer 2884
Customer 2885
Customer 2886
Customer 2887
Customer 2888
Customer 2889
Customer 2890
Customer 2891
Customer 2892
Customer 2893
Customer 2894
Customer 2895
Customer 2896
Customer 2897
Customer 2898
Customer 2899
Customer 2900

Restitution
Amount

$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$

446.08
258.00
115.41
615.06
232.05
977.50
172.48
121.19
523.87
134.04
209.50
2,269.90
173.44
130.35
244.13
346.25
113.28
152.92
540.40
152.66
192.50
100.58
2,694.00
251.60
120.57
103.84
117.45
178.15
183.08
173.98
199.71
133.22
169.12
198.14
146.28
1,769.97
102.63
2,813.60
152.34
207.00
242.11
636.98
219.37
243.21
100.47
1,686.00
100.68
237.19
213.44
200.19

Customer
Customer 2901
Customer 2902
Customer 2903
Customer 2904
Customer 2905
Customer 2906
Customer 2907
Customer 2908
Customer 2909
Customer 2910
Customer 2911
Customer 2912
Customer 2913
Customer 2914
Customer 2915
Customer 2916
Customer 2917
Customer 2918
Customer 2919
Customer 2920
Customer 2921
Customer 2922
Customer 2923
Customer 2924
Customer 2925
Customer 2926
Customer 2927
Customer 2928
Customer 2929
Customer 2930
Customer 2931
Customer 2932
Customer 2933
Customer 2934
Customer 2935
Customer 2936
Customer 2937
Customer 2938
Customer 2939
Customer 2940
Customer 2941
Customer 2942
Customer 2943
Customer 2944
Customer 2945
Customer 2946
Customer 2947
Customer 2948
Customer 2949
Customer 2950

Restitution
Amount

$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$

264.50
103.89
195.94
102.26
726.62
142.21
155.00
214.25
162.23
127.21
125.65
163.41
6,753.11
104.01
276.92
739.95
117.26
193.50
106.89
676.37
576.20
727.89
549.60
425.34
163.02
130.35
180.33
5,603.04
236.42
272.70
110.88
103.80
185.69
7,217.95
200.34
112.50
394.09
363.85
451.47
144.00
291.05
190.21
117.45
157.86
166.23
3,884.00
392.20
147.00
112.65
1,836.64

Customer
Customer 2951
Customer 2952
Customer 2953
Customer 2954
Customer 2955
Customer 2956
Customer 2957
Customer 2958
Customer 2959
Customer 2960
Customer 2961
Customer 2962
Customer 2963
Customer 2964
Customer 2965
Customer 2966
Customer 2967
Customer 2968
Customer 2969
Customer 2970
Customer 2971
Customer 2972
Customer 2973
Customer 2974
Customer 2975
Customer 2976
Customer 2977
Customer 2978
Customer 2979
Customer 2980
Customer 2981
Customer 2982
Customer 2983
Customer 2984
Customer 2985
Customer 2986
Customer 2987
Customer 2988
Customer 2989
Customer 2990
Customer 2991
Customer 2992
Customer 2993
Customer 2994
Customer 2995
Customer 2996
Customer 2997
Customer 2998
Customer 2999
Customer 3000

Restitution
Amount

$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$

953.82
103.23
140.00
5,985.97
255.96
108.33
264.47
117.65
294.43
109.63
564.80
229.84
178.83
148.27
131.78
473.19
191.98
114.39
120.27
306.00
143.18
559.36
327.00
296.20
238.86
405.38
108.47
116.67
415.35
715.55
101.04
200.00
174.75
305.89
151.01
1,007.20
132.23
100.00
270.27
387.97
129.81
101.13
14,503.00
128.21
616.52
113.88
101.36
168.82
186.84
357.56

Attachment A
Customer
Customer 3001
Customer 3002
Customer 3003
Customer 3004
Customer 3005
Customer 3006
Customer 3007
Customer 3008
Customer 3009
Customer 3010
Customer 3011
Customer 3012
Customer 3013
Customer 3014
Customer 3015
Customer 3016
Customer 3017
Customer 3018
Customer 3019
Customer 3020
Customer 3021
Customer 3022
Customer 3023
Customer 3024
Customer 3025
Customer 3026
Customer 3027
Customer 3028
Customer 3029
Customer 3030
Customer 3031
Customer 3032
Customer 3033
Customer 3034
Customer 3035
Customer 3036
Customer 3037
Customer 3038
Customer 3039
Customer 3040
Customer 3041
Customer 3042
Customer 3043
Customer 3044
Customer 3045
Customer 3046
Customer 3047
Customer 3048
Customer 3049
Customer 3050

Restitution
Amount

$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$

105.34
176.73
138.65
112.40
134.19
137.70
569.17
286.46
173.12
167.17
152.50
276.05
637.49
108.36
1,063.30
1,753.90
465.64
109.09
108.00
198.21
188.08
115.36
115.51
1,370.00
159.00
117.96
1,402.56
1,577.43
114.39
482.81
296.68
298.80
838.20
255.32
104.63
626.99
118.14
103.50
110.67
177.82
328.11
181.17
5,006.83
229.00
110.08
1,084.21
144.04
132.51
134.50
424.22

Customer
Customer 3051
Customer 3052
Customer 3053
Customer 3054
Customer 3055
Customer 3056
Customer 3057
Customer 3058
Customer 3059
Customer 3060
Customer 3061
Customer 3062
Customer 3063
Customer 3064
Customer 3065
Customer 3066
Customer 3067
Customer 3068
Customer 3069
Customer 3070
Customer 3071
Customer 3072
Customer 3073
Customer 3074
Customer 3075
Customer 3076
Customer 3077
Customer 3078
Customer 3079
Customer 3080
Customer 3081
Customer 3082
Customer 3083
Customer 3084
Customer 3085
Customer 3086
Customer 3087
Customer 3088
Customer 3089
Customer 3090
Customer 3091
Customer 3092
Customer 3093
Customer 3094
Customer 3095
Customer 3096
Customer 3097
Customer 3098
Customer 3099
Customer 3100

Restitution
Amount

$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$

146.21
155.29
148.05
149.79
278.59
205.06
848.63
175.00
20,944.94
118.12
158.55
157.45
109.05
168.99
1,050.00
101.83
133.01
777.79
372.64
134.53
363.36
151.52
403.15
133.14
115.54
123.16
120.00
173.57
101.31
295.49
193.99
1,383.93
402.36
922.28
244.11
113.22
102.60
116.90
159.19
132.76
682.76
215.60
184.47
306.60
744.60
149.96
226.67
143.78
470.00
250.40

Customer
Customer 3101
Customer 3102
Customer 3103
Customer 3104
Customer 3105
Customer 3106
Customer 3107
Customer 3108
Customer 3109
Customer 3110
Customer 3111
Customer 3112
Customer 3113
Customer 3114
Customer 3115
Customer 3116
Customer 3117
Customer 3118
Customer 3119
Customer 3120
Customer 3121
Customer 3122
Customer 3123
Customer 3124
Customer 3125
Customer 3126
Customer 3127
Customer 3128
Customer 3129
Customer 3130
Customer 3131
Customer 3132
Customer 3133
Customer 3134
Customer 3135
Customer 3136
Customer 3137
Customer 3138
Customer 3139
Customer 3140
Customer 3141
Customer 3142
Customer 3143
Customer 3144
Customer 3145
Customer 3146
Customer 3147
Customer 3148
Customer 3149
Customer 3150

Restitution
Amount

$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$

111.50
100.00
233.33
374.00
322.74
110.78
349.47
132.13
1,129.08
116.39
199.59
103.62
168.70
696.42
254.97
133.00
117.48
126.00
212.10
100.40
105.77
123.64
886.80
103.46
124.52
179.52
316.58
110.45
115.98
753.09
691.33
169.78
1,024.06
213.04
135.48
302.21
107.30
134.93
138.34
135.60
486.60
174.96
101.90
440.73
377.89
454.57
226.54
236.30
100.70
141.64

Attachment A
Customer
Customer 3151
Customer 3152
Customer 3153
Customer 3154
Customer 3155
Customer 3156
Customer 3157
Customer 3158
Customer 3159
Customer 3160
Customer 3161
Customer 3162
Customer 3163
Customer 3164
Customer 3165
Customer 3166
Customer 3167
Customer 3168
Customer 3169
Customer 3170
Customer 3171
Customer 3172
Customer 3173
Customer 3174
Customer 3175
Customer 3176
Customer 3177
Customer 3178
Customer 3179
Customer 3180
Customer 3181
Customer 3182
Customer 3183
Customer 3184
Customer 3185
Customer 3186
Customer 3187
Customer 3188
Customer 3189
Customer 3190
Customer 3191
Customer 3192
Customer 3193
Customer 3194
Customer 3195
Customer 3196
Customer 3197
Customer 3198
Customer 3199
Customer 3200

Restitution
Amount

$
341.39
$
153.34
$
1,584.30
$
310.61
$
147.60
$
198.35
$
108.56
$
288.47
$
141.32
$
341.88
$
534.78
$
499.56
$
134.55
$
161.28
$
376.50
$
528.09
$
102.37
$ 112,502.26
$
129.54
$
130.00
$
151.96
$
175.14
$
134.37
$
154.84
$
146.16
$
158.74
$
274.73
$
469.77
$
217.19
$
112.88
$
129.99
$
176.70
$
108.08
$
128.91
$
232.13
$
124.27
$
101.39
$
159.27
$
184.23
$
101.67
$
135.06
$
245.74
$
185.61
$
229.50
$
108.99
$
163.16
$
744.95
$
422.67
$
267.56
$
109.85

Customer
Customer 3201
Customer 3202
Customer 3203
Customer 3204
Customer 3205
Customer 3206
Customer 3207
Customer 3208
Customer 3209
Customer 3210
Customer 3211
Customer 3212
Customer 3213
Customer 3214
Customer 3215
Customer 3216
Customer 3217
Customer 3218
Customer 3219
Customer 3220
Customer 3221
Customer 3222
Customer 3223
Customer 3224
Customer 3225
Customer 3226
Customer 3227
Customer 3228
Customer 3229
Customer 3230
Customer 3231
Customer 3232
Customer 3233
Customer 3234
Customer 3235
Customer 3236
Customer 3237
Customer 3238
Customer 3239
Customer 3240
Customer 3241
Customer 3242
Customer 3243
Customer 3244
Customer 3245
Customer 3246
Customer 3247
Customer 3248
Customer 3249
Customer 3250

Restitution
Amount

$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$

273.70
302.25
183.03
287.32
370.78
104.80
215.19
112.58
103.45
162.66
115.66
183.04
127.66
296.09
130.50
690.35
200.19
253.76
294.00
216.27
152.40
482.26
144.36
468.50
101.92
101.32
387.50
165.79
205.09
229.52
158.88
499.17
139.00
168.79
329.95
120.13
2,191.39
235.45
280.07
2,262.26
287.67
506.90
177.55
119.00
146.20
274.75
246.28
2,751.71
281.27
124.80

Customer
Customer 3251
Customer 3252
Customer 3253
Customer 3254
Customer 3255
Customer 3256
Customer 3257
Customer 3258
Customer 3259
Customer 3260
Customer 3261
Customer 3262
Customer 3263
Customer 3264
Customer 3265
Customer 3266
Customer 3267
Customer 3268
Customer 3269
Customer 3270
Customer 3271
Customer 3272
Customer 3273
Customer 3274
Customer 3275
Customer 3276
Customer 3277
Customer 3278
Customer 3279
Customer 3280
Customer 3281
Customer 3282
Customer 3283
Customer 3284
Customer 3285
Customer 3286
Customer 3287
Customer 3288
Customer 3289
Customer 3290
Customer 3291
Customer 3292
Customer 3293
Customer 3294
Customer 3295
Customer 3296
Customer 3297
Customer 3298
Customer 3299
Customer 3300

Restitution
Amount

$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$

157.82
1,092.46
245.85
4,662.09
102.95
238.40
120.48
484.05
118.75
268.90
146.73
232.57
125.48
118.80
147.88
171.50
129.83
290.43
234.50
138.30
101.76
104.90
280.99
199.99
324.40
2,516.40
133.04
980.00
180.39
138.34
172.00
108.61
203.35
610.48
200.51
168.03
128.32
168.68
371.94
171.28
244.51
123.75
128.79
559.92
194.58
128.69
408.76
186.01
109.89
1,751.25

Attachment A
Customer
Customer 3301
Customer 3302
Customer 3303
Customer 3304
Customer 3305
Customer 3306
Customer 3307
Customer 3308
Customer 3309
Customer 3310
Customer 3311
Customer 3312
Customer 3313
Customer 3314
Customer 3315
Customer 3316
Customer 3317
Customer 3318
Customer 3319
Customer 3320
Customer 3321
Customer 3322
Customer 3323
Customer 3324
Customer 3325
Customer 3326
Customer 3327
Customer 3328
Customer 3329
Customer 3330
Customer 3331
Customer 3332
Customer 3333
Customer 3334
Customer 3335
Customer 3336
Customer 3337
Customer 3338
Customer 3339
Customer 3340
Customer 3341
Customer 3342
Customer 3343
Customer 3344
Customer 3345
Customer 3346
Customer 3347
Customer 3348
Customer 3349
Customer 3350

Restitution
Amount

$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$

106.73
147.90
150.16
279.41
321.70
166.71
136.65
463.99
706.68
352.51
159.41
158.10
199.86
225.00
501.40
2,983.31
201.30
1,354.59
334.78
152.46
106.75
115.52
223.51
328.63
137.96
358.15
189.03
115.57
262.77
599.85
359.39
1,671.67
331.01
239.59
112.87
169.63
114.20
264.54
613.10
201.53
244.04
112.22
173.80
185.61
944.55
202.34
253.75
377.96
226.36
139.50

Customer
Customer 3351
Customer 3352
Customer 3353
Customer 3354
Customer 3355
Customer 3356
Customer 3357
Customer 3358
Customer 3359
Customer 3360
Customer 3361
Customer 3362
Customer 3363
Customer 3364
Customer 3365
Customer 3366
Customer 3367
Customer 3368
Customer 3369
Customer 3370
Customer 3371
Customer 3372
Customer 3373
Customer 3374
Customer 3375
Customer 3376
Customer 3377
Customer 3378
Customer 3379
Customer 3380
Customer 3381
Customer 3382
Customer 3383
Customer 3384
Customer 3385
Customer 3386
Customer 3387
Customer 3388
Customer 3389
Customer 3390
Customer 3391
Customer 3392
Customer 3393
Customer 3394
Customer 3395
Customer 3396
Customer 3397
Customer 3398
Customer 3399
Customer 3400

Restitution
Amount

$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$

389.37
598.00
114.99
1,069.00
216.00
125.25
101.94
253.19
101.12
230.93
156.00
152.78
1,031.95
135.24
131.39
174.40
124.94
107.05
124.75
314.28
170.34
643.77
205.20
155.25
103.85
543.75
597.04
518.23
103.82
107.38
955.85
210.12
106.70
2,255.24
119.23
240.00
118.10
267.58
1,467.00
161.99
127.80
289.04
131.75
156.21
563.40
270.00
740.23
336.94
169.75
663.90

Customer
Customer 3401
Customer 3402
Customer 3403
Customer 3404
Customer 3405
Customer 3406
Customer 3407
Customer 3408
Customer 3409
Customer 3410
Customer 3411
Customer 3412
Customer 3413
Customer 3414
Customer 3415
Customer 3416
Customer 3417
Customer 3418
Customer 3419
Customer 3420
Customer 3421
Customer 3422
Customer 3423
Customer 3424
Customer 3425
Customer 3426
Customer 3427
Customer 3428
Customer 3429
Customer 3430
Customer 3431
Customer 3432
Customer 3433
Customer 3434
Customer 3435
Customer 3436
Customer 3437
Customer 3438
Customer 3439
Customer 3440
Customer 3441
Customer 3442
Customer 3443
Customer 3444
Customer 3445
Customer 3446
Customer 3447
Customer 3448
Customer 3449
Customer 3450

Restitution
Amount

$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$

127.42
130.86
204.87
615.37
197.71
109.76
3,175.65
162.00
234.31
812.54
104.48
373.10
301.49
502.40
458.00
105.74
138.60
128.61
112.00
121.46
142.03
574.51
132.00
116.93
135.90
110.83
144.48
145.79
875.60
116.15
269.00
163.00
827.43
676.00
193.29
113.35
165.35
212.80
194.64
839.93
159.19
1,067.69
119.67
103.00
648.95
131.59
644.00
102.91
289.50
167.02

Attachment A
Customer
Customer 3451
Customer 3452
Customer 3453
Customer 3454
Customer 3455
Customer 3456
Customer 3457
Customer 3458
Customer 3459
Customer 3460
Customer 3461
Customer 3462
Customer 3463
Customer 3464
Customer 3465
Customer 3466
Customer 3467
Customer 3468
Customer 3469
Customer 3470
Customer 3471
Customer 3472
Customer 3473
Customer 3474
Customer 3475
Customer 3476
Customer 3477
Customer 3478
Customer 3479
Customer 3480
Customer 3481
Customer 3482
Customer 3483
Customer 3484
Customer 3485
Customer 3486
Customer 3487
Customer 3488
Customer 3489
Customer 3490
Customer 3491
Customer 3492
Customer 3493
Customer 3494
Customer 3495
Customer 3496
Customer 3497
Customer 3498
Customer 3499
Customer 3500

Restitution
Amount

$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$

379.86
102.56
3,876.52
114.50
127.28
234.49
129.15
181.10
405.42
276.25
171.98
126.45
102.24
306.43
921.93
116.50
102.18
782.75
2,697.78
105.94
210.28
218.80
348.91
236.11
113.08
122.40
321.35
282.60
317.40
1,113.45
790.87
123.26
146.44
126.80
101.41
1,591.60
129.62
349.35
155.15
181.67
125.68
228.49
390.11
172.75
1,040.73
288.50
362.96
2,121.02
148.27
116.58

Customer
Customer 3501
Customer 3502
Customer 3503
Customer 3504
Customer 3505
Customer 3506
Customer 3507
Customer 3508
Customer 3509
Customer 3510
Customer 3511
Customer 3512
Customer 3513
Customer 3514
Customer 3515
Customer 3516
Customer 3517
Customer 3518
Customer 3519
Customer 3520
Customer 3521
Customer 3522
Customer 3523
Customer 3524
Customer 3525
Customer 3526
Customer 3527
Customer 3528
Customer 3529
Customer 3530
Customer 3531
Customer 3532
Customer 3533
Customer 3534
Customer 3535
Customer 3536
Customer 3537
Customer 3538
Customer 3539
Customer 3540
Customer 3541
Customer 3542
Customer 3543
Customer 3544
Customer 3545
Customer 3546
Customer 3547
Customer 3548
Customer 3549
Customer 3550

Restitution
Amount

$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$

104.48
715.38
488.50
153.52
435.20
180.06
128.05
146.73
104.25
2,627.08
219.68
120.00
355.98
218.50
133.32
402.29
321.00
103.43
224.86
128.70
311.19
298.80
782.08
232.71
196.00
125.30
254.20
130.36
983.60
119.90
263.68
161.91
202.30
169.43
184.91
176.66
181.46
157.24
144.14
177.88
174.20
112.55
210.00
641.76
105.60
171.63
125.93
7,667.60
186.68
207.00

Customer
Customer 3551
Customer 3552
Customer 3553
Customer 3554
Customer 3555
Customer 3556
Customer 3557
Customer 3558
Customer 3559
Customer 3560
Customer 3561
Customer 3562
Customer 3563
Customer 3564
Customer 3565
Customer 3566
Customer 3567
Customer 3568
Customer 3569
Customer 3570
Customer 3571
Customer 3572
Customer 3573
Customer 3574
Customer 3575
Customer 3576
Customer 3577
Customer 3578
Customer 3579
Customer 3580
Customer 3581
Customer 3582
Customer 3583
Customer 3584
Customer 3585
Customer 3586
Customer 3587
Customer 3588
Customer 3589
Customer 3590
Customer 3591
Customer 3592
Customer 3593
Customer 3594
Customer 3595
Customer 3596
Customer 3597
Customer 3598
Customer 3599
Customer 3600

Restitution
Amount

$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$

115.05
106.67
582.79
132.44
255.99
125.15
173.72
719.72
394.00
151.46
155.90
360.88
293.36
178.25
122.00
102.32
268.85
134.63
1,227.19
146.29
260.32
178.96
105.21
111.27
107.48
264.57
180.00
108.33
180.62
121.77
221.84
200.00
305.69
291.09
102.88
802.54
223.88
109.89
129.21
408.71
136.29
499.28
115.04
250.00
280.61
130.35
135.19
291.75
174.61
5,907.37

Attachment A
Customer
Customer 3601
Customer 3602
Customer 3603
Customer 3604
Customer 3605
Customer 3606
Customer 3607
Customer 3608
Customer 3609
Customer 3610
Customer 3611
Customer 3612
Customer 3613
Customer 3614
Customer 3615
Customer 3616
Customer 3617
Customer 3618
Customer 3619
Customer 3620
Customer 3621
Customer 3622
Customer 3623
Customer 3624
Customer 3625
Customer 3626
Customer 3627
Customer 3628
Customer 3629
Customer 3630
Customer 3631
Customer 3632
Customer 3633
Customer 3634
Customer 3635
Customer 3636
Customer 3637
Customer 3638
Customer 3639
Customer 3640
Customer 3641
Customer 3642
Customer 3643
Customer 3644
Customer 3645
Customer 3646
Customer 3647
Customer 3648
Customer 3649
Customer 3650

Restitution
Amount

$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$

148.59
121.96
521.04
186.02
264.35
173.48
164.17
232.30
401.40
130.80
101.60
4,148.73
199.50
117.20
193.60
228.03
535.01
111.72
127.76
171.36
100.00
100.50
101.03
124.52
214.24
110.08
189.75
447.00
285.00
245.84
149.90
1,210.81
210.30
144.62
252.18
2,083.44
156.47
383.02
119.80
102.00
297.47
729.00
925.97
146.74
107.63
126.94
208.75
322.30
119.00
781.25

Customer
Customer 3651
Customer 3652
Customer 3653
Customer 3654
Customer 3655
Customer 3656
Customer 3657
Customer 3658
Customer 3659
Customer 3660
Customer 3661
Customer 3662
Customer 3663
Customer 3664
Customer 3665
Customer 3666
Customer 3667
Customer 3668
Customer 3669
Customer 3670
Customer 3671
Customer 3672
Customer 3673
Customer 3674
Customer 3675
Customer 3676
Customer 3677
Customer 3678
Customer 3679
Customer 3680
Customer 3681
Customer 3682
Customer 3683
Customer 3684
Customer 3685
Customer 3686
Customer 3687
Customer 3688
Customer 3689
Customer 3690
Customer 3691
Customer 3692
Customer 3693
Customer 3694
Customer 3695
Customer 3696
Customer 3697
Customer 3698
Customer 3699
Customer 3700

Restitution
Amount

$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$

200.91
981.63
102.54
309.94
158.08
375.00
581.88
118.40
105.70
371.62
107.60
249.00
443.14
983.90
133.55
562.89
282.28
1,466.35
270.78
196.50
200.85
289.51
181.50
225.00
170.07
764.55
222.63
291.85
177.75
409.58
302.48
135.00
562.62
116.80
100.69
101.03
133.18
102.85
166.39
365.18
166.82
234.00
441.41
124.22
104.13
315.48
198.70
452.00
352.20
128.43

Customer
Customer 3701
Customer 3702
Customer 3703
Customer 3704
Customer 3705
Customer 3706
Customer 3707
Customer 3708
Customer 3709
Customer 3710
Customer 3711
Customer 3712
Customer 3713
Customer 3714
Customer 3715
Customer 3716
Customer 3717
Customer 3718
Customer 3719
Customer 3720
Customer 3721
Customer 3722
Customer 3723
Customer 3724
Customer 3725
Customer 3726
Customer 3727
Customer 3728
Customer 3729
Customer 3730
Customer 3731
Customer 3732
Customer 3733
Customer 3734
Customer 3735
Customer 3736
Customer 3737
Customer 3738
Customer 3739
Customer 3740
Customer 3741
Customer 3742
Customer 3743
Customer 3744
Customer 3745
Customer 3746
Customer 3747
Customer 3748
Customer 3749
Customer 3750

Restitution
Amount

$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$

166.69
363.52
116.30
215.20
121.35
226.78
119.85
371.25
109.36
101.44
176.74
3,329.54
117.65
599.70
273.79
195.00
525.85
727.10
125.00
760.00
500.00
184.91
234.60
1,245.41
497.07
924.00
196.64
124.51
162.95
106.28
351.02
174.10
272.05
255.72
130.27
110.00
113.53
112.99
210.75
237.00
383.40
110.66
156.95
155.28
110.46
203.34
156.00
329.69
112.50
103.43

Attachment A
Customer
Customer 3751
Customer 3752
Customer 3753
Customer 3754
Customer 3755
Customer 3756
Customer 3757
Customer 3758
Customer 3759
Customer 3760
Customer 3761
Customer 3762
Customer 3763
Customer 3764
Customer 3765
Customer 3766
Customer 3767
Customer 3768
Customer 3769
Customer 3770
Customer 3771
Customer 3772
Customer 3773
Customer 3774
Customer 3775
Customer 3776
Customer 3777
Customer 3778
Customer 3779
Customer 3780
Customer 3781
Customer 3782
Customer 3783
Customer 3784
Customer 3785
Customer 3786
Customer 3787
Customer 3788
Customer 3789
Customer 3790
Customer 3791
Customer 3792
Customer 3793
Customer 3794
Customer 3795
Customer 3796
Customer 3797
Customer 3798
Customer 3799
Customer 3800

Restitution
Amount

$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$

135.41
1,079.88
199.50
167.28
1,387.60
390.60
617.00
136.00
189.60
437.09
869.81
690.69
459.50
155.27
129.08
599.00
109.20
141.50
147.86
375.90
214.91
100.16
237.93
202.86
192.23
532.20
134.50
1,895.65
129.00
331.00
154.29
253.88
172.00
102.27
142.56
110.60
344.00
111.99
123.80
107.16
215.00
379.39
179.11
101.52
325.59
103.90
190.00
121.80
141.55
307.34

Customer
Customer 3801
Customer 3802
Customer 3803
Customer 3804
Customer 3805
Customer 3806
Customer 3807
Customer 3808
Customer 3809
Customer 3810
Customer 3811
Customer 3812
Customer 3813
Customer 3814
Customer 3815
Customer 3816
Customer 3817
Customer 3818
Customer 3819
Customer 3820
Customer 3821
Customer 3822
Customer 3823
Customer 3824
Customer 3825
Customer 3826
Customer 3827
Customer 3828
Customer 3829
Customer 3830
Customer 3831
Customer 3832
Customer 3833
Customer 3834
Customer 3835
Customer 3836
Customer 3837
Customer 3838
Customer 3839
Customer 3840
Customer 3841
Customer 3842
Customer 3843
Customer 3844
Customer 3845
Customer 3846
Customer 3847
Customer 3848
Customer 3849
Customer 3850

Restitution
Amount

$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$

130.63
121.92
102.25
121.19
109.28
524.87
621.46
128.30
259.20
101.68
352.91
406.75
403.34
1,846.42
188.83
103.45
979.97
112.40
166.87
326.92
360.56
348.97
175.88
107.46
117.27
139.70
235.43
119.09
235.63
345.17
419.93
217.96
201.00
248.30
136.52
514.63
190.59
384.00
197.25
113.22
873.84
185.29
115.05
272.24
114.98
216.75
172.78
205.00
189.41
100.45

Customer
Customer 3851
Customer 3852
Customer 3853
Customer 3854
Customer 3855
Customer 3856
Customer 3857
Customer 3858
Customer 3859
Customer 3860
Customer 3861
Customer 3862
Customer 3863
Customer 3864
Customer 3865
Customer 3866
Customer 3867
Customer 3868
Customer 3869
Customer 3870
Customer 3871
Customer 3872
Customer 3873
Customer 3874
Customer 3875
Customer 3876
Customer 3877
Customer 3878
Customer 3879
Customer 3880
Customer 3881
Customer 3882
Customer 3883
Customer 3884
Customer 3885
Customer 3886
Customer 3887
Customer 3888
Customer 3889
Customer 3890
Customer 3891
Customer 3892
Customer 3893
Customer 3894
Customer 3895
Customer 3896
Customer 3897
Customer 3898
Customer 3899
Customer 3900

Restitution
Amount

$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$

250.00
316.34
172.63
103.07
118.30
246.74
208.00
120.97
121.65
1,587.50
179.85
129.00
454.41
350.29
222.59
735.72
172.67
180.00
119.80
103.80
257.88
112.50
178.50
202.28
238.80
131.50
118.50
120.83
1,195.50
260.91
150.35
8,298.36
163.84
132.65
169.35
148.29
754.20
109.64
129.84
286.77
563.87
449.40
155.61
108.30
233.18
150.75
100.50
606.13
159.21
114.00

Attachment A
Customer
Customer 3901
Customer 3902
Customer 3903
Customer 3904
Customer 3905
Customer 3906
Customer 3907
Customer 3908
Customer 3909
Customer 3910
Customer 3911
Customer 3912
Customer 3913
Customer 3914
Customer 3915
Customer 3916
Customer 3917
Customer 3918
Customer 3919
Customer 3920
Customer 3921
Customer 3922
Customer 3923
Customer 3924
Customer 3925
Customer 3926
Customer 3927
Customer 3928
Customer 3929
Customer 3930
Customer 3931
Customer 3932
Customer 3933
Customer 3934
Customer 3935
Customer 3936
Customer 3937
Customer 3938
Customer 3939
Customer 3940
Customer 3941
Customer 3942
Customer 3943
Customer 3944
Customer 3945
Customer 3946
Customer 3947
Customer 3948
Customer 3949
Customer 3950

Restitution
Amount

$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$

533.35
104.70
114.08
300.18
196.10
126.10
109.09
5,310.21
212.02
154.89
757.40
149.37
122.50
1,109.70
156.00
387.59
132.29
334.08
238.60
317.67
282.91
614.39
162.36
129.23
145.55
353.92
1,050.00
122.29
317.28
574.74
148.35
198.40
479.82
250.53
130.66
190.30
360.00
734.74
138.60
441.58
455.39
527.24
226.00
160.08
710.76
230.54
298.74
4,224.16
519.30
413.43

Customer
Customer 3951
Customer 3952
Customer 3953
Customer 3954
Customer 3955
Customer 3956
Customer 3957
Customer 3958
Customer 3959
Customer 3960
Customer 3961
Customer 3962
Customer 3963
Customer 3964
Customer 3965
Customer 3966
Customer 3967
Customer 3968
Customer 3969
Customer 3970
Customer 3971
Customer 3972
Customer 3973
Customer 3974
Customer 3975
Customer 3976
Customer 3977
Customer 3978
Customer 3979
Customer 3980
Customer 3981
Customer 3982
Customer 3983
Customer 3984
Customer 3985
Customer 3986
Customer 3987
Customer 3988
Customer 3989
Customer 3990
Customer 3991
Customer 3992
Customer 3993
Customer 3994
Customer 3995
Customer 3996
Customer 3997
Customer 3998
Customer 3999
Customer 4000

Restitution
Amount

$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$

115.51
132.98
117.45
1,813.70
210.42
748.78
147.14
243.80
142.85
128.76
386.59
261.00
103.53
141.96
657.00
820.70
159.00
327.54
151.26
893.46
125.30
146.60
222.42
153.00
180.00
101.79
146.51
526.61
2,444.50
136.96
129.05
213.62
1,110.93
10,960.01
131.76
314.95
226.60
224.50
213.75
139.50
124.98
108.15
595.00
160.38
488.81
5,568.25
120.00
100.32
194.38
241.42

Customer
Customer 4001
Customer 4002
Customer 4003
Customer 4004
Customer 4005
Customer 4006
Customer 4007
Customer 4008
Customer 4009
Customer 4010
Customer 4011
Customer 4012
Customer 4013
Customer 4014
Customer 4015
Customer 4016
Customer 4017
Customer 4018
Customer 4019
Customer 4020
Customer 4021
Customer 4022
Customer 4023
Customer 4024
Customer 4025
Customer 4026
Customer 4027
Customer 4028
Customer 4029
Customer 4030
Customer 4031
Customer 4032
Customer 4033
Customer 4034
Customer 4035
Customer 4036
Customer 4037
Customer 4038
Customer 4039
Customer 4040
Customer 4041
Customer 4042
Customer 4043
Customer 4044
Customer 4045
Customer 4046
Customer 4047
Customer 4048
Customer 4049
Customer 4050

Restitution
Amount

$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$

206.79
799.32
512.01
107.96
297.68
101.69
100.69
133.77
214.83
122.41
141.85
155.19
448.44
263.20
248.20
120.00
437.56
250.80
375.38
935.95
231.00
307.87
104.85
186.17
362.36
295.59
331.34
162.00
132.40
191.70
225.67
225.90
2,064.47
296.81
555.84
118.00
344.00
215.11
122.10
902.75
166.72
156.26
416.70
154.00
106.95
260.52
350.70
220.10
430.84
278.15

Attachment A
Customer
Customer 4051
Customer 4052
Customer 4053
Customer 4054
Customer 4055
Customer 4056
Customer 4057
Customer 4058
Customer 4059
Customer 4060
Customer 4061
Customer 4062
Customer 4063
Customer 4064
Customer 4065
Customer 4066
Customer 4067
Customer 4068
Customer 4069
Customer 4070
Customer 4071
Customer 4072
Customer 4073
Customer 4074
Customer 4075
Customer 4076
Customer 4077
Customer 4078
Customer 4079
Customer 4080
Customer 4081
Customer 4082
Customer 4083
Customer 4084
Customer 4085
Customer 4086
Customer 4087
Customer 4088
Customer 4089
Customer 4090
Customer 4091
Customer 4092
Customer 4093
Customer 4094
Customer 4095
Customer 4096
Customer 4097
Customer 4098
Customer 4099
Customer 4100

Restitution
Amount

$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$

191.60
1,589.68
296.30
129.49
519.41
885.70
175.95
108.31
126.30
162.89
183.96
375.07
426.59
254.74
111.40
388.66
543.40
145.64
282.00
141.66
140.00
556.20
284.29
860.00
687.95
115.45
1,053.70
279.67
309.10
255.00
380.30
134.59
131.49
112.53
306.31
575.81
196.31
427.37
161.49
356.86
115.11
262.89
114.21
116.54
170.01
121.24
135.90
118.87
119.68
168.33

Customer
Customer 4101
Customer 4102
Customer 4103
Customer 4104
Customer 4105
Customer 4106
Customer 4107
Customer 4108
Customer 4109
Customer 4110
Customer 4111
Customer 4112
Customer 4113
Customer 4114
Customer 4115
Customer 4116
Customer 4117
Customer 4118
Customer 4119
Customer 4120
Customer 4121
Customer 4122
Customer 4123
Customer 4124
Customer 4125
Customer 4126
Customer 4127
Customer 4128
Customer 4129
Customer 4130
Customer 4131
Customer 4132
Customer 4133
Customer 4134
Customer 4135
Customer 4136
Customer 4137
Customer 4138
Customer 4139
Customer 4140
Customer 4141
Customer 4142
Customer 4143
Customer 4144
Customer 4145
Customer 4146
Customer 4147
Customer 4148
Customer 4149
Customer 4150

Restitution
Amount

$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$

201.84
114.07
100.15
110.88
558.18
126.00
307.84
284.86
149.70
100.00
402.24
182.93
199.33
521.52
321.00
203.35
154.97
408.10
125.24
766.52
212.91
2,252.26
207.60
162.83
122.01
215.24
143.97
187.95
252.15
157.91
314.91
189.75
124.71
545.27
202.29
161.00
165.00
114.80
279.78
116.28
107.86
362.91
512.82
266.80
106.80
1,137.82
140.10
156.10
249.31
130.64

Customer
Customer 4151
Customer 4152
Customer 4153
Customer 4154
Customer 4155
Customer 4156
Customer 4157
Customer 4158
Customer 4159
Customer 4160
Customer 4161
Customer 4162
Customer 4163
Customer 4164
Customer 4165
Customer 4166
Customer 4167
Customer 4168
Customer 4169
Customer 4170
Customer 4171
Customer 4172
Customer 4173
Customer 4174
Customer 4175
Customer 4176
Customer 4177
Customer 4178
Customer 4179
Customer 4180
Customer 4181
Customer 4182
Customer 4183
Customer 4184
Customer 4185
Customer 4186
Customer 4187
Customer 4188
Customer 4189
Customer 4190
Customer 4191
Customer 4192
Customer 4193
Customer 4194
Customer 4195
Customer 4196
Customer 4197
Customer 4198
Customer 4199
Customer 4200

Restitution
Amount

$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$

147.21
221.58
1,176.19
129.19
733.25
483.81
152.50
294.00
128.10
160.00
353.61
206.60
628.91
101.52
2,473.46
136.10
118.17
162.19
860.37
188.90
909.93
281.17
675.00
114.19
421.83
1,386.71
162.60
444.00
148.24
116.55
354.00
195.53
496.49
156.94
172.50
1,564.78
165.13
190.73
6,475.78
177.70
180.00
1,412.56
161.12
107.39
137.92
980.00
424.31
125.26
150.93
139.15

Attachment A
Customer
Customer 4201
Customer 4202
Customer 4203
Customer 4204
Customer 4205
Customer 4206
Customer 4207
Customer 4208
Customer 4209
Customer 4210
Customer 4211
Customer 4212
Customer 4213
Customer 4214
Customer 4215
Customer 4216
Customer 4217
Customer 4218
Customer 4219
Customer 4220
Customer 4221
Customer 4222
Customer 4223
Customer 4224
Customer 4225
Customer 4226
Customer 4227
Customer 4228
Customer 4229
Customer 4230
Customer 4231
Customer 4232
Customer 4233
Customer 4234
Customer 4235
Customer 4236
Customer 4237
Customer 4238
Customer 4239
Customer 4240
Customer 4241
Customer 4242
Customer 4243
Customer 4244
Customer 4245
Customer 4246
Customer 4247
Customer 4248
Customer 4249
Customer 4250

Restitution
Amount

$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$

114.33
105.30
107.18
228.16
251.85
406.97
461.30
229.93
110.80
224.01
221.79
426.17
114.44
348.55
498.10
104.25
227.92
175.96
494.12
103.80
455.18
195.00
212.86
102.81
315.80
305.65
270.21
107.82
947.52
139.36
179.53
111.33
1,542.95
135.24
270.03
340.50
835.58
173.55
140.28
1,381.57
206.50
140.00
138.91
166.73
121.46
156.85
124.26
112.03
131.60
162.08

Customer
Customer 4251
Customer 4252
Customer 4253
Customer 4254
Customer 4255
Customer 4256
Customer 4257
Customer 4258
Customer 4259
Customer 4260
Customer 4261
Customer 4262
Customer 4263
Customer 4264
Customer 4265
Customer 4266
Customer 4267
Customer 4268
Customer 4269
Customer 4270
Customer 4271
Customer 4272
Customer 4273
Customer 4274
Customer 4275
Customer 4276
Customer 4277
Customer 4278
Customer 4279
Customer 4280
Customer 4281
Customer 4282
Customer 4283
Customer 4284
Customer 4285
Customer 4286
Customer 4287
Customer 4288
Customer 4289
Customer 4290
Customer 4291
Customer 4292
Customer 4293
Customer 4294
Customer 4295
Customer 4296
Customer 4297
Customer 4298
Customer 4299
Customer 4300

Restitution
Amount

$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$

119.60
125.94
102.81
274.15
142.90
192.45
1,881.99
137.79
103.39
204.00
133.02
200.55
830.59
109.28
223.60
111.00
605.70
692.59
101.90
101.37
165.20
188.00
300.50
170.23
144.91
177.00
2,282.10
177.77
118.49
187.40
200.50
112.53
245.67
105.81
490.24
160.97
208.66
409.15
223.83
160.16
148.93
184.22
584.59
1,176.27
105.92
112.44
198.25
200.31
165.12
139.05

Customer
Customer 4301
Customer 4302
Customer 4303
Customer 4304
Customer 4305
Customer 4306
Customer 4307
Customer 4308
Customer 4309
Customer 4310
Customer 4311
Customer 4312
Customer 4313
Customer 4314
Customer 4315
Customer 4316
Customer 4317
Customer 4318
Customer 4319
Customer 4320
Customer 4321
Customer 4322
Customer 4323
Customer 4324
Customer 4325
Customer 4326
Customer 4327
Customer 4328
Customer 4329
Customer 4330
Customer 4331
Customer 4332
Customer 4333
Customer 4334
Customer 4335
Customer 4336
Customer 4337
Customer 4338
Customer 4339
Customer 4340
Customer 4341
Customer 4342
Customer 4343
Customer 4344
Customer 4345
Customer 4346
Customer 4347
Customer 4348
Customer 4349
Customer 4350

Restitution
Amount

$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$

1,172.94
220.39
187.00
449.67
634.02
168.98
189.00
153.00
194.53
110.30
685.50
437.16
242.25
1,829.58
250.48
116.72
189.37
1,420.35
141.22
1,238.27
381.74
262.84
100.37
181.98
952.29
328.73
356.30
313.47
165.96
382.60
202.31
329.80
743.92
394.69
107.13
519.41
136.72
394.63
264.82
538.96
286.25
940.20
669.66
112.54
3,826.05
141.25
181.93
300.38
739.05
379.21

Attachment A
Customer
Customer 4351
Customer 4352
Customer 4353
Customer 4354
Customer 4355
Customer 4356
Customer 4357
Customer 4358
Customer 4359
Customer 4360
Customer 4361
Customer 4362
Customer 4363
Customer 4364
Customer 4365
Customer 4366
Customer 4367
Customer 4368
Customer 4369
Customer 4370
Customer 4371
Customer 4372
Customer 4373
Customer 4374
Customer 4375
Customer 4376
Customer 4377
Customer 4378
Customer 4379
Customer 4380
Customer 4381
Customer 4382
Customer 4383
Customer 4384
Customer 4385
Customer 4386
Customer 4387
Customer 4388
Customer 4389
Customer 4390
Customer 4391
Customer 4392
Customer 4393
Customer 4394
Customer 4395
Customer 4396
Customer 4397
Customer 4398
Customer 4399
Customer 4400

Restitution
Amount

$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$

242.10
126.20
145.08
146.25
120.62
246.00
335.50
185.39
335.00
188.74
322.55
110.60
955.54
248.90
380.19
128.71
122.90
2,941.90
206.82
322.00
134.47
180.52
171.49
104.36
319.45
122.80
114.84
186.38
521.40
4,573.59
238.85
160.79
600.00
318.76
497.00
163.32
160.17
240.17
256.67
125.50
148.98
172.99
110.32
113.27
158.00
106.33
111.85
267.17
166.67
264.24

Customer
Customer 4401
Customer 4402
Customer 4403
Customer 4404
Customer 4405
Customer 4406
Customer 4407
Customer 4408
Customer 4409
Customer 4410
Customer 4411
Customer 4412
Customer 4413
Customer 4414
Customer 4415
Customer 4416
Customer 4417
Customer 4418
Customer 4419
Customer 4420
Customer 4421
Customer 4422
Customer 4423
Customer 4424
Customer 4425
Customer 4426
Customer 4427
Customer 4428
Customer 4429
Customer 4430
Customer 4431
Customer 4432
Customer 4433
Customer 4434
Customer 4435
Customer 4436
Customer 4437
Customer 4438
Customer 4439
Customer 4440
Customer 4441
Customer 4442
Customer 4443
Customer 4444
Customer 4445
Customer 4446
Customer 4447
Customer 4448
Customer 4449
Customer 4450

Restitution
Amount

$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$

265.74
159.00
282.03
111.55
583.56
413.70
121.03
115.59
209.11
149.23
204.57
120.00
556.41
110.48
135.98
245.19
424.92
119.08
220.00
875.66
137.87
155.63
270.06
238.62
176.26
109.44
3,336.00
375.72
129.78
35.25
355.89
44.99
179.46
105.88
112.35
32.00
12.80
15.10
169.81
20.40
486.50
27.06
19.47
26.69
14.80
142.20
110.94
139.00
147.18
276.50

Customer
Customer 4451
Customer 4452
Customer 4453
Customer 4454
Customer 4455
Customer 4456
Customer 4457
Customer 4458
Customer 4459
Customer 4460
Customer 4461
Customer 4462
Customer 4463
Customer 4464
Customer 4465
Customer 4466
Customer 4467
Customer 4468
Customer 4469
Customer 4470
Customer 4471
Customer 4472
Customer 4473
Customer 4474
Customer 4475
Customer 4476
Customer 4477
Customer 4478
Customer 4479
Customer 4480
Customer 4481
Customer 4482
Customer 4483
Customer 4484
Customer 4485
Customer 4486
Customer 4487
Customer 4488
Customer 4489
Customer 4490
Customer 4491
Customer 4492
Customer 4493
Customer 4494
Customer 4495
Customer 4496
Customer 4497
Customer 4498
Customer 4499
Customer 4500

Restitution
Amount

$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$

27.80
41.40
58.99
140.40
28.08
27.44
53.60
14.55
87.60
224.84
47.57
51.20
76.50
656.58
91.20
23.37
114.83
303.20
20.36
56.10
52.45
10.44
112.80
17.03
145.00
11.40
276.00
126.17
3,086.24
11.35
71.40
65.50
67.69
204.88
114.70
30.80
30.44
24.80
176.90
31.99
2,552.25
49.76
15.58
480.00
38.58
120.11
27.12
122.08
22.53
11.75

Attachment A
Customer
Customer 4501
Customer 4502
Customer 4503
Customer 4504
Customer 4505
Customer 4506
Customer 4507
Customer 4508
Customer 4509
Customer 4510
Customer 4511
Customer 4512
Customer 4513
Customer 4514
Customer 4515
Customer 4516
Customer 4517
Customer 4518
Customer 4519
Customer 4520
Customer 4521
Customer 4522
Customer 4523
Customer 4524
Customer 4525
Customer 4526
Customer 4527
Customer 4528
Customer 4529
Customer 4530
Customer 4531
Customer 4532
Customer 4533
Customer 4534
Customer 4535
Customer 4536
Customer 4537
Customer 4538
Customer 4539
Customer 4540
Customer 4541
Customer 4542
Customer 4543
Customer 4544
Customer 4545
Customer 4546
Customer 4547
Customer 4548
Customer 4549
Customer 4550

Restitution
Amount

$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$

80.00
29.40
13.05
48.99
13.23
59.36
5,965.26
21.76
18.18
13.79
13.54
96.20
14.68
21.50
12.75
184.88
72.90
723.75
60.00
38.51
156.86
17.55
78.00
11.23
10.49
15.50
33.08
318.11
25.09
13.11
28.81
53.40
272.58
13.74
53.07
193.38
82.09
244.93
10.79
470.00
71.59
69.79
40.17
14.56
69.75
30.45
1,323.45
32.50
164.95
60.00

Customer
Customer 4551
Customer 4552
Customer 4553
Customer 4554
Customer 4555
Customer 4556
Customer 4557
Customer 4558
Customer 4559
Customer 4560
Customer 4561
Customer 4562
Customer 4563
Customer 4564
Customer 4565
Customer 4566
Customer 4567
Customer 4568
Customer 4569
Customer 4570
Customer 4571
Customer 4572
Customer 4573
Customer 4574
Customer 4575
Customer 4576
Customer 4577
Customer 4578
Customer 4579
Customer 4580
Customer 4581
Customer 4582
Customer 4583
Customer 4584
Customer 4585
Customer 4586
Customer 4587
Customer 4588
Customer 4589
Customer 4590
Customer 4591
Customer 4592
Customer 4593
Customer 4594
Customer 4595
Customer 4596
Customer 4597
Customer 4598
Customer 4599
Customer 4600

Restitution
Amount

$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$

28.14
38.00
46.07
340.73
13,874.27
13.58
106.19
27.50
18.73
14.24
11.00
10.20
24.75
41.26
133.40
11.20
11.85
85.40
22.66
11.15
21.46
251.02
17.10
309.20
23.00
254.00
10.16
13,608.19
16.50
14.40
13.54
11.69
164.16
13.77
778.11
24.81
43.50
558.75
67.85
55.00
148.36
224.70
115.16
35.90
56.40
207.00
588.75
133.28
319.20
14.90

Customer
Customer 4601
Customer 4602
Customer 4603
Customer 4604
Customer 4605
Customer 4606
Customer 4607
Customer 4608
Customer 4609
Customer 4610
Customer 4611
Customer 4612
Customer 4613
Customer 4614
Customer 4615
Customer 4616
Customer 4617
Customer 4618
Customer 4619
Customer 4620
Customer 4621
Customer 4622
Customer 4623
Customer 4624
Customer 4625
Customer 4626
Customer 4627
Customer 4628
Customer 4629
Customer 4630
Customer 4631
Customer 4632
Customer 4633
Customer 4634
Customer 4635
Customer 4636
Customer 4637
Customer 4638
Customer 4639
Customer 4640
Customer 4641
Customer 4642
Customer 4643
Customer 4644
Customer 4645
Customer 4646
Customer 4647
Customer 4648
Customer 4649
Customer 4650

Restitution
Amount

$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$

27.00
265.24
75.04
354.00
378.53
440.39
124.49
17.37
24.72
253.23
24.60
174.44
40.00
217.19
175.44
842.72
182.50
20.90
63.50
2,329.95
121.09
83.40
32.43
21.89
96.00
82.30
159.50
17.70
37.78
116.16
10.50
156.56
160.12
37.14
70.69
50.82
14.48
237.38
883.68
16.46
21.39
56.40
16.44
860.10
26.04
14.31
26.40
76.11
36.34
43.20

Attachment A
Customer
Customer 4651
Customer 4652
Customer 4653
Customer 4654
Customer 4655
Customer 4656
Customer 4657
Customer 4658
Customer 4659
Customer 4660
Customer 4661
Customer 4662
Customer 4663
Customer 4664
Customer 4665
Customer 4666
Customer 4667
Customer 4668
Customer 4669
Customer 4670
Customer 4671
Customer 4672
Customer 4673
Customer 4674
Customer 4675
Customer 4676
Customer 4677
Customer 4678
Customer 4679
Customer 4680
Customer 4681
Customer 4682
Customer 4683
Customer 4684
Customer 4685
Customer 4686
Customer 4687
Customer 4688
Customer 4689
Customer 4690
Customer 4691
Customer 4692
Customer 4693
Customer 4694
Customer 4695
Customer 4696
Customer 4697
Customer 4698
Customer 4699
Customer 4700

Restitution
Amount

$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$

95.01
23.80
25.08
37.50
72.45
14.98
13.47
10.44
28.16
39.20
27.74
37.05
29.71
49.68
18.92
130.20
15.18
22.32
20.80
95.97
31.60
450.50
274.50
74.40
2,131.73
58.68
86.00
241.80
24.95
10.00
71.91
89.00
54.12
917.00
37.28
99.07
14.88
269.82
41.60
44.64
51.86
46.35
86.20
26.50
137.22
18.80
47.93
157.24
114.00
31.20

Customer
Customer 4701
Customer 4702
Customer 4703
Customer 4704
Customer 4705
Customer 4706
Customer 4707
Customer 4708
Customer 4709
Customer 4710
Customer 4711
Customer 4712
Customer 4713
Customer 4714
Customer 4715
Customer 4716
Customer 4717
Customer 4718
Customer 4719
Customer 4720
Customer 4721
Customer 4722
Customer 4723
Customer 4724
Customer 4725
Customer 4726
Customer 4727
Customer 4728
Customer 4729
Customer 4730
Customer 4731
Customer 4732
Customer 4733
Customer 4734
Customer 4735
Customer 4736
Customer 4737
Customer 4738
Customer 4739
Customer 4740
Customer 4741
Customer 4742
Customer 4743
Customer 4744
Customer 4745
Customer 4746
Customer 4747
Customer 4748
Customer 4749
Customer 4750

Restitution
Amount

$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$

104.00
30.59
27.90
138.06
17.00
296.70
106.20
577.98
46.20
15.05
31.20
80.75
14.82
48.29
18.60
165.54
52.59
461.50
10.40
37.32
21.25
21.25
52.92
31.00
21.25
102.20
37.20
14.28
331.50
17.04
127.50
30.42
18.60
18.60
27.90
86.04
64.02
288.08
43.00
15.00
17.04
11.45
72.24
63.56
36.25
84.32
291.20
10.08
1,125.60
30.97

Customer
Customer 4751
Customer 4752
Customer 4753
Customer 4754
Customer 4755
Customer 4756
Customer 4757
Customer 4758
Customer 4759
Customer 4760
Customer 4761
Customer 4762
Customer 4763
Customer 4764
Customer 4765
Customer 4766
Customer 4767
Customer 4768
Customer 4769
Customer 4770
Customer 4771
Customer 4772
Customer 4773
Customer 4774
Customer 4775
Customer 4776
Customer 4777
Customer 4778
Customer 4779
Customer 4780
Customer 4781
Customer 4782
Customer 4783
Customer 4784
Customer 4785
Customer 4786
Customer 4787
Customer 4788
Customer 4789
Customer 4790
Customer 4791
Customer 4792
Customer 4793
Customer 4794
Customer 4795
Customer 4796
Customer 4797
Customer 4798
Customer 4799
Customer 4800

Restitution
Amount

$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$

42.50
43.54
92.47
20.10
11.16
1,744.05
18.60
145.15
52.00
74.00
42.33
17.81
38.25
12.75
19.80
502.32
21.25
16.80
43.68
34.17
21.25
45.12
501.50
24.50
61.00
56.43
21.25
70.68
50.76
42.57
11.92
12.30
46.50
16.74
13.02
26.78
37.20
27.90
16.74
18.60
18.60
80.63
46.50
20.80
25.50
72.25
21.25
31.20
10.82
37.20

Attachment A
Customer
Customer 4801
Customer 4802
Customer 4803
Customer 4804
Customer 4805
Customer 4806
Customer 4807
Customer 4808
Customer 4809
Customer 4810
Customer 4811
Customer 4812
Customer 4813
Customer 4814
Customer 4815
Customer 4816
Customer 4817
Customer 4818
Customer 4819
Customer 4820
Customer 4821
Customer 4822
Customer 4823
Customer 4824
Customer 4825
Customer 4826
Customer 4827
Customer 4828
Customer 4829
Customer 4830
Customer 4831
Customer 4832
Customer 4833
Customer 4834
Customer 4835
Customer 4836
Customer 4837
Customer 4838
Customer 4839
Customer 4840
Customer 4841
Customer 4842
Customer 4843
Customer 4844
Customer 4845
Customer 4846
Customer 4847
Customer 4848
Customer 4849
Customer 4850

Restitution
Amount

$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$

22.75
12.75
12.75
10.40
13.02
19.57
20.80
33.20
222.00
23.93
21.72
24.68
208.00
29.22
11.42
76.26
66.50
293.45
15.84
21.25
57.72
28.63
72.54
34.00
43.39
134.31
106.59
14.21
46.60
314.83
76.87
64.57
42.50
136.55
79.60
93.50
186.00
44.46
10.16
398.00
40.35
3,054.42
73.59
14.70
44.56
18.03
32.08
250.23
78.66
29.27

Customer
Customer 4851
Customer 4852
Customer 4853
Customer 4854
Customer 4855
Customer 4856
Customer 4857
Customer 4858
Customer 4859
Customer 4860
Customer 4861
Customer 4862
Customer 4863
Customer 4864
Customer 4865
Customer 4866
Customer 4867
Customer 4868
Customer 4869
Customer 4870
Customer 4871
Customer 4872
Customer 4873
Customer 4874
Customer 4875
Customer 4876
Customer 4877
Customer 4878
Customer 4879
Customer 4880
Customer 4881
Customer 4882
Customer 4883
Customer 4884
Customer 4885
Customer 4886
Customer 4887
Customer 4888
Customer 4889
Customer 4890
Customer 4891
Customer 4892
Customer 4893
Customer 4894
Customer 4895
Customer 4896
Customer 4897
Customer 4898
Customer 4899
Customer 4900

Restitution
Amount

$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$

63.46
31.41
10.25
115.14
732.59
552.47
10.80
1,128.64
13.97
26.36
45.50
40.80
164.51
26.65
19.56
678.42
157.07
17.80
73.83
14.50
29.40
465.00
377.50
61.44
75.30
62.00
366.61
580.16
62.00
43.40
26.66
23.05
156.43
191.70
89.90
21.30
86.10
57.81
58.30
45.07
89.99
20.50
14.40
127.07
11.50
383.36
61.23
42.91
57.00
14.90

Customer
Customer 4901
Customer 4902
Customer 4903
Customer 4904
Customer 4905
Customer 4906
Customer 4907
Customer 4908
Customer 4909
Customer 4910
Customer 4911
Customer 4912
Customer 4913
Customer 4914
Customer 4915
Customer 4916
Customer 4917
Customer 4918
Customer 4919
Customer 4920
Customer 4921
Customer 4922
Customer 4923
Customer 4924
Customer 4925
Customer 4926
Customer 4927
Customer 4928
Customer 4929
Customer 4930
Customer 4931
Customer 4932
Customer 4933
Customer 4934
Customer 4935
Customer 4936
Customer 4937
Customer 4938
Customer 4939
Customer 4940
Customer 4941
Customer 4942
Customer 4943
Customer 4944
Customer 4945
Customer 4946
Customer 4947
Customer 4948
Customer 4949
Customer 4950

Restitution
Amount

$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$

116.73
31.44
20.96
25.00
250.00
846.22
80.56
10.42
1,125.00
42.61
1,307.01
446.57
11.10
40.00
58.16
347.70
607.16
12.75
239.11
20.60
232.20
14.99
21.00
13.81
14.71
39.72
17.38
10.98
897.84
83.84
19.95
49.60
36.83
11.42
12.79
24.62
266.75
158.00
12.38
34.80
940.00
37.31
18.64
277.84
1,382.16
36.91
124.70
42.09
19.65
25.50

Attachment A
Customer
Customer 4951
Customer 4952
Customer 4953
Customer 4954
Customer 4955
Customer 4956
Customer 4957
Customer 4958
Customer 4959
Customer 4960
Customer 4961
Customer 4962
Customer 4963
Customer 4964
Customer 4965
Customer 4966
Customer 4967
Customer 4968
Customer 4969
Customer 4970
Customer 4971
Customer 4972
Customer 4973
Customer 4974
Customer 4975
Customer 4976
Customer 4977
Customer 4978
Customer 4979
Customer 4980
Customer 4981
Customer 4982
Customer 4983
Customer 4984
Customer 4985
Customer 4986
Customer 4987
Customer 4988
Customer 4989
Customer 4990
Customer 4991
Customer 4992
Customer 4993
Customer 4994
Customer 4995
Customer 4996
Customer 4997
Customer 4998
Customer 4999
Customer 5000

Restitution
Amount

$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$

52.50
164.94
63.43
1,593.53
26.10
13.83
28.88
66.65
317.27
16.38
101.92
73.71
14.67
16.38
188.37
40.95
81.90
24.57
29.80
24.57
620.43
81.90
32.76
16.38
81.90
33.68
24.57
66.72
24.57
155.43
17.26
299.25
222.63
328.10
122.99
58.76
216.92
15.74
22.36
202.57
77.00
529.07
12.64
223.10
1,913.15
31.21
138.15
147.70
67.92
153.43

Customer
Customer 5001
Customer 5002
Customer 5003
Customer 5004
Customer 5005
Customer 5006
Customer 5007
Customer 5008
Customer 5009
Customer 5010
Customer 5011
Customer 5012
Customer 5013
Customer 5014
Customer 5015
Customer 5016
Customer 5017
Customer 5018
Customer 5019
Customer 5020
Customer 5021
Customer 5022
Customer 5023
Customer 5024
Customer 5025
Customer 5026
Customer 5027
Customer 5028
Customer 5029
Customer 5030
Customer 5031
Customer 5032
Customer 5033
Customer 5034
Customer 5035
Customer 5036
Customer 5037
Customer 5038
Customer 5039
Customer 5040
Customer 5041
Customer 5042
Customer 5043
Customer 5044
Customer 5045
Customer 5046
Customer 5047
Customer 5048
Customer 5049
Customer 5050

Restitution
Amount

$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$

223.16
12.09
250.58
221.79
96.80
13.29
166.18
28.23
13.04
85.25
34.08
653.94
69.54
207.23
281.62
30.80
62.54
37.08
66.82
13,978.26
23.01
60.97
33.52
25.82
87.04
18.65
278.17
45.00
10.34
10.91
60.95
11.60
13.74
59.00
79.39
60.45
81.90
101.16
98.34
63.41
203.76
28.36
36.25
52.00
67.89
131.97
14.64
13.65
42.24
85.49

Customer
Customer 5051
Customer 5052
Customer 5053
Customer 5054
Customer 5055
Customer 5056
Customer 5057
Customer 5058
Customer 5059
Customer 5060
Customer 5061
Customer 5062
Customer 5063
Customer 5064
Customer 5065
Customer 5066
Customer 5067
Customer 5068
Customer 5069
Customer 5070
Customer 5071
Customer 5072
Customer 5073
Customer 5074
Customer 5075
Customer 5076
Customer 5077
Customer 5078
Customer 5079
Customer 5080
Customer 5081
Customer 5082
Customer 5083
Customer 5084
Customer 5085
Customer 5086
Customer 5087
Customer 5088
Customer 5089
Customer 5090
Customer 5091
Customer 5092
Customer 5093
Customer 5094
Customer 5095
Customer 5096
Customer 5097
Customer 5098
Customer 5099
Customer 5100

Restitution
Amount

$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$

125.70
17.89
115.75
54.72
41.44
19.89
16.40
23.40
63.81
16.03
18.35
57.00
16.03
44.63
527.18
17.75
50.00
18.29
73.19
33.00
11.80
476.00
482.50
115.88
15.21
99.58
14.88
10.68
45.36
28.98
67.99
21.58
25.37
22.79
10.36
81.60
10.36
45.14
48.51
54.00
56.70
18.00
153.50
12.86
34.59
18.72
18.04
78.88
29.90
98.08

Attachment A
Customer
Customer 5101
Customer 5102
Customer 5103
Customer 5104
Customer 5105
Customer 5106
Customer 5107
Customer 5108
Customer 5109
Customer 5110
Customer 5111
Customer 5112
Customer 5113
Customer 5114
Customer 5115
Customer 5116
Customer 5117
Customer 5118
Customer 5119
Customer 5120
Customer 5121
Customer 5122
Customer 5123
Customer 5124
Customer 5125
Customer 5126
Customer 5127
Customer 5128
Customer 5129
Customer 5130
Customer 5131
Customer 5132
Customer 5133
Customer 5134
Customer 5135
Customer 5136
Customer 5137
Customer 5138
Customer 5139
Customer 5140
Customer 5141
Customer 5142
Customer 5143
Customer 5144
Customer 5145
Customer 5146
Customer 5147
Customer 5148
Customer 5149
Customer 5150

Restitution
Amount

$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$

204.30
454.31
35.01
120.58
135.99
387.62
55.25
10.86
28.68
114.64
288.00
29.37
46.86
148.09
12.60
141.00
25.20
34.74
54.60
126.00
18.40
20.90
19.89
204.00
70.96
14.38
25.50
27.05
49.59
21.80
37.52
95.56
945.00
36.00
11.32
356.31
92.94
79.20
59.36
121.07
21.25
64.90
18.37
130.57
140.90
11.00
204.93
11.11
13.90
680.20

Customer
Customer 5151
Customer 5152
Customer 5153
Customer 5154
Customer 5155
Customer 5156
Customer 5157
Customer 5158
Customer 5159
Customer 5160
Customer 5161
Customer 5162
Customer 5163
Customer 5164
Customer 5165
Customer 5166
Customer 5167
Customer 5168
Customer 5169
Customer 5170
Customer 5171
Customer 5172
Customer 5173
Customer 5174
Customer 5175
Customer 5176
Customer 5177
Customer 5178
Customer 5179
Customer 5180
Customer 5181
Customer 5182
Customer 5183
Customer 5184
Customer 5185
Customer 5186
Customer 5187
Customer 5188
Customer 5189
Customer 5190
Customer 5191
Customer 5192
Customer 5193
Customer 5194
Customer 5195
Customer 5196
Customer 5197
Customer 5198
Customer 5199
Customer 5200

Restitution
Amount

$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$

17.65
10.52
17.96
31.77
19.43
20.10
10.50
54.25
91.25
10.04
601.40
158.76
290.63
34.58
20.64
20.94
28.18
14.33
27.66
412.18
54.35
12.20
86.60
116.25
23.20
80.00
174.10
16.20
94.90
2,238.50
110.32
29.95
81.24
15.46
173.31
180.00
26.60
16.37
15.94
15.26
12.88
37.45
46.64
21.47
15.29
23.49
15.42
74.79
24.78
55.22

Customer
Customer 5201
Customer 5202
Customer 5203
Customer 5204
Customer 5205
Customer 5206
Customer 5207
Customer 5208
Customer 5209
Customer 5210
Customer 5211
Customer 5212
Customer 5213
Customer 5214
Customer 5215
Customer 5216
Customer 5217
Customer 5218
Customer 5219
Customer 5220
Customer 5221
Customer 5222
Customer 5223
Customer 5224
Customer 5225
Customer 5226
Customer 5227
Customer 5228
Customer 5229
Customer 5230
Customer 5231
Customer 5232
Customer 5233
Customer 5234
Customer 5235
Customer 5236
Customer 5237
Customer 5238
Customer 5239
Customer 5240
Customer 5241
Customer 5242
Customer 5243
Customer 5244
Customer 5245
Customer 5246
Customer 5247
Customer 5248
Customer 5249
Customer 5250

Restitution
Amount

$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$

36.72
17.23
37.87
100.06
35.95
30.42
113.67
30.66
24.53
53.74
48.00
262.93
57.15
30.15
26.25
21.42
35.76
69.20
260.09
37.55
159.47
83.31
35.20
328.50
274.80
49.08
45.90
84.00
32.52
51.93
302.22
34.84
97.56
179.55
111.20
204.71
14.29
13.86
57.70
39.27
192.80
173.21
15.00
68.00
281.80
15.90
215.86
85.50
196.72
148.84

Attachment A
Customer
Customer 5251
Customer 5252
Customer 5253
Customer 5254
Customer 5255
Customer 5256
Customer 5257
Customer 5258
Customer 5259
Customer 5260
Customer 5261
Customer 5262
Customer 5263
Customer 5264
Customer 5265
Customer 5266
Customer 5267
Customer 5268
Customer 5269
Customer 5270
Customer 5271
Customer 5272
Customer 5273
Customer 5274
Customer 5275
Customer 5276
Customer 5277
Customer 5278
Customer 5279
Customer 5280
Customer 5281
Customer 5282
Customer 5283
Customer 5284
Customer 5285
Customer 5286
Customer 5287
Customer 5288
Customer 5289
Customer 5290
Customer 5291
Customer 5292
Customer 5293
Customer 5294
Customer 5295
Customer 5296
Customer 5297
Customer 5298
Customer 5299
Customer 5300

Restitution
Amount

$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$

71.94
35.69
453.12
407.86
38.40
88.57
188.51
11.90
24.45
122.40
16.73
563.41
18.36
52.32
16.23
98.28
26.49
19.79
137.15
24.25
161.55
41.95
90.18
95.06
29.82
42.12
541.56
97.58
11.60
27.67
14.18
292.75
206.01
87.76
11.03
19.38
43.40
118.81
120.23
19.38
12.96
14.74
76.80
76.80
19.20
275.40
33.94
15.68
13.38
14.15

Customer
Customer 5301
Customer 5302
Customer 5303
Customer 5304
Customer 5305
Customer 5306
Customer 5307
Customer 5308
Customer 5309
Customer 5310
Customer 5311
Customer 5312
Customer 5313
Customer 5314
Customer 5315
Customer 5316
Customer 5317
Customer 5318
Customer 5319
Customer 5320
Customer 5321
Customer 5322
Customer 5323
Customer 5324
Customer 5325
Customer 5326
Customer 5327
Customer 5328
Customer 5329
Customer 5330
Customer 5331
Customer 5332
Customer 5333
Customer 5334
Customer 5335
Customer 5336
Customer 5337
Customer 5338
Customer 5339
Customer 5340
Customer 5341
Customer 5342
Customer 5343
Customer 5344
Customer 5345
Customer 5346
Customer 5347
Customer 5348
Customer 5349
Customer 5350

Restitution
Amount

$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$

63.24
29.91
17.52
33.38
17.00
15.77
142.52
20.75
89.50
25.01
39.23
46.72
252.29
62.56
15.59
358.45
33.62
64.60
89.52
13.61
34.79
56.07
66.56
14.95
18.96
17.02
28.80
45.24
12.91
184.51
16.40
199.65
18.10
16.75
103.48
19.00
95.54
10.63
19.43
26.98
13.37
108.30
100.75
14.79
11.37
24.90
30.00
12.88
60.00
18.32

Customer
Customer 5351
Customer 5352
Customer 5353
Customer 5354
Customer 5355
Customer 5356
Customer 5357
Customer 5358
Customer 5359
Customer 5360
Customer 5361
Customer 5362
Customer 5363
Customer 5364
Customer 5365
Customer 5366
Customer 5367
Customer 5368
Customer 5369
Customer 5370
Customer 5371
Customer 5372
Customer 5373
Customer 5374
Customer 5375
Customer 5376
Customer 5377
Customer 5378
Customer 5379
Customer 5380
Customer 5381
Customer 5382
Customer 5383
Customer 5384
Customer 5385
Customer 5386
Customer 5387
Customer 5388
Customer 5389
Customer 5390
Customer 5391
Customer 5392
Customer 5393
Customer 5394
Customer 5395
Customer 5396
Customer 5397
Customer 5398
Customer 5399
Customer 5400

Restitution
Amount

$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$

12.12
57.60
23.39
478.10
17.05
47.13
133.24
10.11
14.49
714.68
405.50
17.03
15.20
33.69
155.48
15.86
292.89
15.45
24.09
32.70
16.14
16.38
63.36
61.74
25.81
46.10
32.28
86.90
127.63
32.32
82.88
346.94
42.75
22.29
33.54
63.28
34.02
21.39
31.48
32.04
316.80
24.57
181.44
46.50
16.50
93.70
76.95
192.00
666.00
12.76

Attachment A
Customer
Customer 5401
Customer 5402
Customer 5403
Customer 5404
Customer 5405
Customer 5406
Customer 5407
Customer 5408
Customer 5409
Customer 5410
Customer 5411
Customer 5412
Customer 5413
Customer 5414
Customer 5415
Customer 5416
Customer 5417
Customer 5418
Customer 5419
Customer 5420
Customer 5421
Customer 5422
Customer 5423
Customer 5424
Customer 5425
Customer 5426
Customer 5427
Customer 5428
Customer 5429
Customer 5430
Customer 5431
Customer 5432
Customer 5433
Customer 5434
Customer 5435
Customer 5436
Customer 5437
Customer 5438
Customer 5439
Customer 5440
Customer 5441
Customer 5442
Customer 5443
Customer 5444
Customer 5445
Customer 5446
Customer 5447
Customer 5448
Customer 5449
Customer 5450

Restitution
Amount

$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$

10.20
13.90
85.50
17.10
412.09
17.60
14.06
112.71
35.44
16.30
31.00
32.80
18.74
234.58
65.39
14.42
23.87
64.00
181.47
14.68
150.90
57.66
66.43
18.14
53.76
110.92
14.00
13.60
18.15
20.25
92.61
26.11
21.90
17.64
26.37
27.51
10.96
52.45
33.75
90.80
31.00
12.40
39.73
36.27
29.70
114.43
394.20
69.98
50.21
85.40

Customer
Customer 5451
Customer 5452
Customer 5453
Customer 5454
Customer 5455
Customer 5456
Customer 5457
Customer 5458
Customer 5459
Customer 5460
Customer 5461
Customer 5462
Customer 5463
Customer 5464
Customer 5465
Customer 5466
Customer 5467
Customer 5468
Customer 5469
Customer 5470
Customer 5471
Customer 5472
Customer 5473
Customer 5474
Customer 5475
Customer 5476
Customer 5477
Customer 5478
Customer 5479
Customer 5480
Customer 5481
Customer 5482
Customer 5483
Customer 5484
Customer 5485
Customer 5486
Customer 5487
Customer 5488
Customer 5489
Customer 5490
Customer 5491
Customer 5492
Customer 5493
Customer 5494
Customer 5495
Customer 5496
Customer 5497
Customer 5498
Customer 5499
Customer 5500

Restitution
Amount

$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$

34.18
23.18
64.94
88.49
65.52
53.29
81.45
14.16
21.46
35.50
467.37
29.77
39.67
25.45
11.07
98.05
90.50
14.48
300.89
18.94
25.43
247.60
337.28
20.73
22.38
226.91
24.40
73.66
35.37
14.40
24.30
13.83
20.12
245.92
16.25
36.33
10.14
35.75
18.98
43.88
43.79
15.99
99.90
12.35
19.51
47.68
26.14
38.71
41.48
255.29

Customer
Customer 5501
Customer 5502
Customer 5503
Customer 5504
Customer 5505
Customer 5506
Customer 5507
Customer 5508
Customer 5509
Customer 5510
Customer 5511
Customer 5512
Customer 5513
Customer 5514
Customer 5515
Customer 5516
Customer 5517
Customer 5518
Customer 5519
Customer 5520
Customer 5521
Customer 5522
Customer 5523
Customer 5524
Customer 5525
Customer 5526
Customer 5527
Customer 5528
Customer 5529
Customer 5530
Customer 5531
Customer 5532
Customer 5533
Customer 5534
Customer 5535
Customer 5536
Customer 5537
Customer 5538
Customer 5539
Customer 5540
Customer 5541
Customer 5542
Customer 5543
Customer 5544
Customer 5545
Customer 5546
Customer 5547
Customer 5548
Customer 5549
Customer 5550

Restitution
Amount

$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$

15.73
66.54
26.40
645.68
17.73
264.88
118.98
14.72
11.79
12.76
117.20
274.54
21.20
108.28
13.94
80.85
20.68
807.43
46.47
2,073.60
175.00
30.09
17.57
12.91
11.20
19.95
28.14
24.13
152.94
11.81
10.62
45.30
51.01
123.10
30.90
44.65
12.34
16.23
33.92
12.41
578.20
59.18
31.73
48.47
15.40
24.62
91.43
22.47
117.94
14.90

Attachment A
Customer
Customer 5551
Customer 5552
Customer 5553
Customer 5554
Customer 5555
Customer 5556
Customer 5557
Customer 5558
Customer 5559
Customer 5560
Customer 5561
Customer 5562
Customer 5563
Customer 5564
Customer 5565
Customer 5566
Customer 5567
Customer 5568
Customer 5569
Customer 5570
Customer 5571
Customer 5572
Customer 5573
Customer 5574
Customer 5575
Customer 5576
Customer 5577
Customer 5578
Customer 5579
Customer 5580
Customer 5581
Customer 5582
Customer 5583
Customer 5584
Customer 5585
Customer 5586
Customer 5587
Customer 5588
Customer 5589
Customer 5590
Customer 5591
Customer 5592
Customer 5593
Customer 5594
Customer 5595
Customer 5596
Customer 5597
Customer 5598
Customer 5599
Customer 5600

Restitution
Amount

$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$

268.27
58.80
72.75
323.48
88.45
36.76
25.33
62.80
19.74
16.25
63.32
40.59
66.47
19.60
38.80
277.20
119.22
216.38
135.69
26.03
64.30
16.00
16.71
60.90
38.81
10.12
20.00
50.30
87.55
33.70
47.04
17.13
15.11
50.25
44.55
31.10
95.69
43.79
225.75
164.50
13.16
644.54
2,550.48
164.50
63.92
35.99
18.10
51.86
11.19
1,038.70

Customer
Customer 5601
Customer 5602
Customer 5603
Customer 5604
Customer 5605
Customer 5606
Customer 5607
Customer 5608
Customer 5609
Customer 5610
Customer 5611
Customer 5612
Customer 5613
Customer 5614
Customer 5615
Customer 5616
Customer 5617
Customer 5618
Customer 5619
Customer 5620
Customer 5621
Customer 5622
Customer 5623
Customer 5624
Customer 5625
Customer 5626
Customer 5627
Customer 5628
Customer 5629
Customer 5630
Customer 5631
Customer 5632
Customer 5633
Customer 5634
Customer 5635
Customer 5636
Customer 5637
Customer 5638
Customer 5639
Customer 5640
Customer 5641
Customer 5642
Customer 5643
Customer 5644
Customer 5645
Customer 5646
Customer 5647
Customer 5648
Customer 5649
Customer 5650

Restitution
Amount

$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$

107.72
12.73
10.50
10.80
31.92
17.92
17.08
15.43
60.11
59.07
79.62
605.80
23.23
99.21
13.94
54.00
184.18
31.18
408.60
24.20
92.53
39.38
20.88
159.24
61.50
47.04
13.89
40.40
68.32
19.68
10.44
12.66
45.96
197.39
14.00
20.10
15.07
216.98
44.80
63.17
14.88
285.99
29.75
42.00
13.95
15.63
14.20
53.90
45.52
21.06

Customer
Customer 5651
Customer 5652
Customer 5653
Customer 5654
Customer 5655
Customer 5656
Customer 5657
Customer 5658
Customer 5659
Customer 5660
Customer 5661
Customer 5662
Customer 5663
Customer 5664
Customer 5665
Customer 5666
Customer 5667
Customer 5668
Customer 5669
Customer 5670
Customer 5671
Customer 5672
Customer 5673
Customer 5674
Customer 5675
Customer 5676
Customer 5677
Customer 5678
Customer 5679
Customer 5680
Customer 5681
Customer 5682
Customer 5683
Customer 5684
Customer 5685
Customer 5686
Customer 5687
Customer 5688
Customer 5689
Customer 5690
Customer 5691
Customer 5692
Customer 5693
Customer 5694
Customer 5695
Customer 5696
Customer 5697
Customer 5698
Customer 5699
Customer 5700

Restitution
Amount

$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$

26.04
202.27
490.00
269.15
452.00
109.18
69.29
495.47
19.40
21.80
29.40
111.00
29.35
70.13
22.32
55.00
25.08
20.66
22.75
95.77
343.65
333.00
692.30
37.28
99.13
10.40
11.21
15.52
163.77
22.42
66.73
79.36
360.22
16.00
29.11
65.00
47.78
90.13
1,433.13
26.97
109.98
14.40
99.69
25.40
33.80
60.95
63.63
38.26
50.94
25.67

Attachment A
Customer
Customer 5701
Customer 5702
Customer 5703
Customer 5704
Customer 5705
Customer 5706
Customer 5707
Customer 5708
Customer 5709
Customer 5710
Customer 5711
Customer 5712
Customer 5713
Customer 5714
Customer 5715
Customer 5716
Customer 5717
Customer 5718
Customer 5719
Customer 5720
Customer 5721
Customer 5722
Customer 5723
Customer 5724
Customer 5725
Customer 5726
Customer 5727
Customer 5728
Customer 5729
Customer 5730
Customer 5731
Customer 5732
Customer 5733
Customer 5734
Customer 5735
Customer 5736
Customer 5737
Customer 5738
Customer 5739
Customer 5740
Customer 5741
Customer 5742
Customer 5743
Customer 5744
Customer 5745
Customer 5746
Customer 5747
Customer 5748
Customer 5749
Customer 5750

Restitution
Amount

$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$

49.55
108.26
19.15
41.00
423.27
15.31
43.02
1,928.32
744.14
55.25
26.68
29.06
14.13
1,811.33
1,280.73
21.34
35.44
13.74
49.20
111.10
44.80
136.67
10.00
47.39
118.82
19.01
33.91
22.10
17.09
26.20
825.87
32.65
12.63
145.38
26.78
172.21
37.25
65.79
12.92
10.15
25.78
20.80
12.50
368.08
10.63
121.28
19.14
167.96
14.07
22.00

Customer
Customer 5751
Customer 5752
Customer 5753
Customer 5754
Customer 5755
Customer 5756
Customer 5757
Customer 5758
Customer 5759
Customer 5760
Customer 5761
Customer 5762
Customer 5763
Customer 5764
Customer 5765
Customer 5766
Customer 5767
Customer 5768
Customer 5769
Customer 5770
Customer 5771
Customer 5772
Customer 5773
Customer 5774
Customer 5775
Customer 5776
Customer 5777
Customer 5778
Customer 5779
Customer 5780
Customer 5781
Customer 5782
Customer 5783
Customer 5784
Customer 5785
Customer 5786
Customer 5787
Customer 5788
Customer 5789
Customer 5790
Customer 5791
Customer 5792
Customer 5793
Customer 5794
Customer 5795
Customer 5796
Customer 5797
Customer 5798
Customer 5799
Customer 5800

Restitution
Amount

$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$

873.79
44.00
117.40
686.84
56.12
21.30
17.14
96.98
136.84
410.56
46.86
919.38
303.27
215.24
16.24
283.90
19.28
14.69
13.16
76.95
13.25
58.20
59.76
32.91
77.45
88.80
10.80
12.40
26.00
30.29
30.12
76.53
212.70
840.50
23.10
15.43
21.59
31.82
16.38
32.48
195.58
470.40
366.10
14.36
42.49
13.98
118.66
20.92
140.26
73.71

Customer
Customer 5801
Customer 5802
Customer 5803
Customer 5804
Customer 5805
Customer 5806
Customer 5807
Customer 5808
Customer 5809
Customer 5810
Customer 5811
Customer 5812
Customer 5813
Customer 5814
Customer 5815
Customer 5816
Customer 5817
Customer 5818
Customer 5819
Customer 5820
Customer 5821
Customer 5822
Customer 5823
Customer 5824
Customer 5825
Customer 5826
Customer 5827
Customer 5828
Customer 5829
Customer 5830
Customer 5831
Customer 5832
Customer 5833
Customer 5834
Customer 5835
Customer 5836
Customer 5837
Customer 5838
Customer 5839
Customer 5840
Customer 5841
Customer 5842
Customer 5843
Customer 5844
Customer 5845
Customer 5846
Customer 5847
Customer 5848
Customer 5849
Customer 5850

Restitution
Amount

$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$

35.76
31.32
103.01
79.42
106.92
35.24
23.97
16.17
101.77
173.57
34.50
1,510.99
14.00
29.15
61.50
20.32
239.35
110.20
15.18
64.07
24.75
636.00
35.14
387.50
222.18
51.71
15.45
711.52
18.20
20.32
11.70
130.35
221.75
18.65
775.83
311.22
23.76
65.01
2,426.67
54.30
198.70
53.10
199.00
22.11
14.76
11.97
159.50
258.00
16.57
29.70

Attachment A
Customer
Customer 5851
Customer 5852
Customer 5853
Customer 5854
Customer 5855
Customer 5856
Customer 5857
Customer 5858
Customer 5859
Customer 5860
Customer 5861
Customer 5862
Customer 5863
Customer 5864
Customer 5865
Customer 5866
Customer 5867
Customer 5868
Customer 5869
Customer 5870
Customer 5871
Customer 5872
Customer 5873
Customer 5874
Customer 5875
Customer 5876
Customer 5877
Customer 5878
Customer 5879
Customer 5880
Customer 5881
Customer 5882
Customer 5883
Customer 5884
Customer 5885
Customer 5886
Customer 5887
Customer 5888
Customer 5889
Customer 5890
Customer 5891
Customer 5892
Customer 5893
Customer 5894
Customer 5895
Customer 5896
Customer 5897
Customer 5898
Customer 5899
Customer 5900

Restitution
Amount

$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$

239.64
31.16
153.55
238.48
13.40
266.03
19.74
12.11
15.19
11.42
13.40
36.00
93.52
24.23
10.60
10.72
15.38
11.67
82.50
113.43
173.24
22.10
17.00
90.00
15.36
603.20
48.87
16.29
15.45
73.31
1,992.55
75.40
343.98
3,869.74
33.04
25.72
118.28
13.67
248.06
133.00
37.98
22.24
51.06
137.20
126.70
1,409.63
94.66
66.50
102.32
26.30

Customer
Customer 5901
Customer 5902
Customer 5903
Customer 5904
Customer 5905
Customer 5906
Customer 5907
Customer 5908
Customer 5909
Customer 5910
Customer 5911
Customer 5912
Customer 5913
Customer 5914
Customer 5915
Customer 5916
Customer 5917
Customer 5918
Customer 5919
Customer 5920
Customer 5921
Customer 5922
Customer 5923
Customer 5924
Customer 5925
Customer 5926
Customer 5927
Customer 5928
Customer 5929
Customer 5930
Customer 5931
Customer 5932
Customer 5933
Customer 5934
Customer 5935
Customer 5936
Customer 5937
Customer 5938
Customer 5939
Customer 5940
Customer 5941
Customer 5942
Customer 5943
Customer 5944
Customer 5945
Customer 5946
Customer 5947
Customer 5948
Customer 5949
Customer 5950

Restitution
Amount

$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$

142.22
13.50
26.60
31.50
67.87
10.50
206.34
75.00
95.15
11.10
44.24
30.00
175.56
46.19
42.79
11.33
22.51
113.98
19.58
149.11
92.07
13.09
15.92
24.65
35.91
17.85
17.76
14.52
51.30
12.36
14.39
1,889.85
84.50
29.47
164.74
45.38
35.06
27.09
250.48
11.25
23.68
21.88
835.91
124.20
129.81
24.08
80.68
66.95
18.34
266.71

Customer
Customer 5951
Customer 5952
Customer 5953
Customer 5954
Customer 5955
Customer 5956
Customer 5957
Customer 5958
Customer 5959
Customer 5960
Customer 5961
Customer 5962
Customer 5963
Customer 5964
Customer 5965
Customer 5966
Customer 5967
Customer 5968
Customer 5969
Customer 5970
Customer 5971
Customer 5972
Customer 5973
Customer 5974
Customer 5975
Customer 5976
Customer 5977
Customer 5978
Customer 5979
Customer 5980
Customer 5981
Customer 5982
Customer 5983
Customer 5984
Customer 5985
Customer 5986
Customer 5987
Customer 5988
Customer 5989
Customer 5990
Customer 5991
Customer 5992
Customer 5993
Customer 5994
Customer 5995
Customer 5996
Customer 5997
Customer 5998
Customer 5999
Customer 6000

Restitution
Amount

$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$

21.75
38.09
11.50
274.85
227.24
113.25
33.44
873.20
22.44
39.00
41.21
169.58
17.09
76.99
21.53
16.20
61.80
119.80
33.90
12.68
46.64
68.29
242.91
164.00
1,095.61
10,468.82
42.72
58.22
34.49
15.98
14.51
21.00
19.30
1,510.83
68.61
45.11
27.68
17.00
118.47
10.88
106.83
21.39
209.52
241.19
110.88
91.71
37.40
45.74
310.95
57.00

Attachment A
Customer
Customer 6001
Customer 6002
Customer 6003
Customer 6004
Customer 6005
Customer 6006
Customer 6007
Customer 6008
Customer 6009
Customer 6010
Customer 6011
Customer 6012
Customer 6013
Customer 6014
Customer 6015
Customer 6016
Customer 6017
Customer 6018
Customer 6019
Customer 6020
Customer 6021
Customer 6022
Customer 6023
Customer 6024
Customer 6025
Customer 6026
Customer 6027
Customer 6028
Customer 6029
Customer 6030
Customer 6031
Customer 6032
Customer 6033
Customer 6034
Customer 6035
Customer 6036
Customer 6037
Customer 6038
Customer 6039
Customer 6040
Customer 6041
Customer 6042
Customer 6043
Customer 6044
Customer 6045
Customer 6046
Customer 6047
Customer 6048
Customer 6049
Customer 6050

Restitution
Amount

$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$

16.88
69.95
45.55
14.80
333.68
18.03
11.20
62.34
812.52
218.92
32.32
16.40
73.56
27.72
26.09
159.00
43.05
20.34
147.35
45.25
148.50
344.96
34.95
41.50
70.98
25.62
36.25
63.78
13.25
46.31
266.70
16.82
1,207.50
28.35
16.79
34.64
1,043.90
18.26
11.25
19.00
172.24
34.06
16.04
102.69
126.38
30.54
32.81
26.25
60.32
10.47

Customer
Customer 6051
Customer 6052
Customer 6053
Customer 6054
Customer 6055
Customer 6056
Customer 6057
Customer 6058
Customer 6059
Customer 6060
Customer 6061
Customer 6062
Customer 6063
Customer 6064
Customer 6065
Customer 6066
Customer 6067
Customer 6068
Customer 6069
Customer 6070
Customer 6071
Customer 6072
Customer 6073
Customer 6074
Customer 6075
Customer 6076
Customer 6077
Customer 6078
Customer 6079
Customer 6080
Customer 6081
Customer 6082
Customer 6083
Customer 6084
Customer 6085
Customer 6086
Customer 6087
Customer 6088
Customer 6089
Customer 6090
Customer 6091
Customer 6092
Customer 6093
Customer 6094
Customer 6095
Customer 6096
Customer 6097
Customer 6098
Customer 6099
Customer 6100

Restitution
Amount

$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$

12.87
77.93
692.15
45.98
10.48
15,629.06
57.48
21.66
329.60
1,393.80
477.88
115.00
20.01
44.35
1,277.31
20.60
24.20
975.65
1,337.50
31.69
260.80
57.33
36.74
105.00
102.39
14.40
35.40
18.86
32.80
10.16
58.75
55.75
13.65
15.71
154.47
209.98
213.06
12.83
234.81
33.80
473.28
22.42
436.63
31.51
33.50
41.85
30.86
21.50
72.00
16.50

Customer
Customer 6101
Customer 6102
Customer 6103
Customer 6104
Customer 6105
Customer 6106
Customer 6107
Customer 6108
Customer 6109
Customer 6110
Customer 6111
Customer 6112
Customer 6113
Customer 6114
Customer 6115
Customer 6116
Customer 6117
Customer 6118
Customer 6119
Customer 6120
Customer 6121
Customer 6122
Customer 6123
Customer 6124
Customer 6125
Customer 6126
Customer 6127
Customer 6128
Customer 6129
Customer 6130
Customer 6131
Customer 6132
Customer 6133
Customer 6134
Customer 6135
Customer 6136
Customer 6137
Customer 6138
Customer 6139
Customer 6140
Customer 6141
Customer 6142
Customer 6143
Customer 6144
Customer 6145
Customer 6146
Customer 6147
Customer 6148
Customer 6149
Customer 6150

Restitution
Amount

$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$

59.00
13.67
17.72
14.02
214.25
38.42
14.00
40.40
50.86
18.61
144.12
14.57
2,171.50
340.10
15.00
66.60
407.84
15.70
26.25
23.00
181.57
75.60
36.82
20.16
68.60
281.03
29.90
119.56
16.23
119.84
78.47
85.74
42.70
88.68
15.52
126.74
263.35
13.48
15.68
54.40
68.21
11.45
143.46
71.95
12.24
40.88
73.45
524.38
34.20
164.80

Attachment A
Customer
Customer 6151
Customer 6152
Customer 6153
Customer 6154
Customer 6155
Customer 6156
Customer 6157
Customer 6158
Customer 6159
Customer 6160
Customer 6161
Customer 6162
Customer 6163
Customer 6164
Customer 6165
Customer 6166
Customer 6167
Customer 6168
Customer 6169
Customer 6170
Customer 6171
Customer 6172
Customer 6173
Customer 6174
Customer 6175
Customer 6176
Customer 6177
Customer 6178
Customer 6179
Customer 6180
Customer 6181
Customer 6182
Customer 6183
Customer 6184
Customer 6185
Customer 6186
Customer 6187
Customer 6188
Customer 6189
Customer 6190
Customer 6191
Customer 6192
Customer 6193
Customer 6194
Customer 6195
Customer 6196
Customer 6197
Customer 6198
Customer 6199
Customer 6200

Restitution
Amount

$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$

53.90
162.73
185.84
26.74
30.81
32.14
135.75
12.05
27.08
219.36
55.65
12.84
25.28
88.99
23.88
62.27
54.93
98.97
432.90
21.27
100.00
63.07
48.61
15.00
15.09
16.53
102.31
319.95
42.47
112.00
31.49
24.50
66.00
279.27
12.22
141.45
43.70
366.00
41.16
20.83
297.57
35.99
36.10
19.95
413.91
244.88
21.00
10.50
35.67
22.01

Customer
Customer 6201
Customer 6202
Customer 6203
Customer 6204
Customer 6205
Customer 6206
Customer 6207
Customer 6208
Customer 6209
Customer 6210
Customer 6211
Customer 6212
Customer 6213
Customer 6214
Customer 6215
Customer 6216
Customer 6217
Customer 6218
Customer 6219
Customer 6220
Customer 6221
Customer 6222
Customer 6223
Customer 6224
Customer 6225
Customer 6226
Customer 6227
Customer 6228
Customer 6229
Customer 6230
Customer 6231
Customer 6232
Customer 6233
Customer 6234
Customer 6235
Customer 6236
Customer 6237
Customer 6238
Customer 6239
Customer 6240
Customer 6241
Customer 6242
Customer 6243
Customer 6244
Customer 6245
Customer 6246
Customer 6247
Customer 6248
Customer 6249
Customer 6250

Restitution
Amount

$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$

41.98
127.54
304.95
85.50
33.57
16.50
46.54
19.60
11.40
72.96
26.99
27.20
10.00
766.10
13.94
1,193.68
74.00
28.38
302.21
64.67
11.22
1,596.70
667.96
714.16
10.89
65.10
11.20
592.50
1,310.50
12.40
19.08
969.52
55.76
54.17
27.74
21.00
57.04
91.80
69.18
26.10
74.47
251.99
38.22
108.75
138.00
17.52
38.99
799.95
18.76
112.41

Customer
Customer 6251
Customer 6252
Customer 6253
Customer 6254
Customer 6255
Customer 6256
Customer 6257
Customer 6258
Customer 6259
Customer 6260
Customer 6261
Customer 6262
Customer 6263
Customer 6264
Customer 6265
Customer 6266
Customer 6267
Customer 6268
Customer 6269
Customer 6270
Customer 6271
Customer 6272
Customer 6273
Customer 6274
Customer 6275
Customer 6276
Customer 6277
Customer 6278
Customer 6279
Customer 6280
Customer 6281
Customer 6282
Customer 6283
Customer 6284
Customer 6285
Customer 6286
Customer 6287
Customer 6288
Customer 6289
Customer 6290
Customer 6291
Customer 6292
Customer 6293
Customer 6294
Customer 6295
Customer 6296
Customer 6297
Customer 6298
Customer 6299
Customer 6300

Restitution
Amount

$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$

56.43
13.41
44.00
959.90
296.49
24.32
7,989.53
80.02
34.30
55.60
11.20
183.66
11.58
77.34
536.80
26.36
1,317.66
89.91
416.50
14.82
11.93
364.12
10.58
119.70
12.20
46.42
450.99
10.11
29.93
36.05
24.30
17.00
22.34
161.81
45.36
36.40
14.07
197.92
23.79
26.56
17.33
68.69
996.00
13.75
87.40
92.86
31.70
21.83
19.19
11.23

Attachment A
Customer
Customer 6301
Customer 6302
Customer 6303
Customer 6304
Customer 6305
Customer 6306
Customer 6307
Customer 6308
Customer 6309
Customer 6310
Customer 6311
Customer 6312
Customer 6313
Customer 6314
Customer 6315
Customer 6316
Customer 6317
Customer 6318
Customer 6319
Customer 6320
Customer 6321
Customer 6322
Customer 6323
Customer 6324
Customer 6325
Customer 6326
Customer 6327
Customer 6328
Customer 6329
Customer 6330
Customer 6331
Customer 6332
Customer 6333
Customer 6334
Customer 6335
Customer 6336
Customer 6337
Customer 6338
Customer 6339
Customer 6340
Customer 6341
Customer 6342
Customer 6343
Customer 6344
Customer 6345
Customer 6346
Customer 6347
Customer 6348
Customer 6349
Customer 6350

Restitution
Amount

$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$

16.70
14.50
19.36
486.88
80.09
204.37
1,268.00
69.78
76.28
10.79
259.25
81.15
14.28
91.04
23.70
13.23
21.60
107.00
15.54
13.44
14.73
24.50
49.50
27.20
68.00
28.31
20.00
15.36
328.21
113.90
19.00
12.64
13.30
12.96
10.98
29.00
29.40
44.90
137.99
28.56
21.00
43.87
21.00
34.88
18.18
10.23
81.26
1,575.24
57.50
30.72

Customer
Customer 6351
Customer 6352
Customer 6353
Customer 6354
Customer 6355
Customer 6356
Customer 6357
Customer 6358
Customer 6359
Customer 6360
Customer 6361
Customer 6362
Customer 6363
Customer 6364
Customer 6365
Customer 6366
Customer 6367
Customer 6368
Customer 6369
Customer 6370
Customer 6371
Customer 6372
Customer 6373
Customer 6374
Customer 6375
Customer 6376
Customer 6377
Customer 6378
Customer 6379
Customer 6380
Customer 6381
Customer 6382
Customer 6383
Customer 6384
Customer 6385
Customer 6386
Customer 6387
Customer 6388
Customer 6389
Customer 6390
Customer 6391
Customer 6392
Customer 6393
Customer 6394
Customer 6395
Customer 6396
Customer 6397
Customer 6398
Customer 6399
Customer 6400

Restitution
Amount

$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$

29.88
117.30
11.15
39.00
10.47
23.87
59.00
11.10
45.30
30.73
223.90
43.68
52.76
32.26
334.15
221.15
22.30
173.70
22.76
184.87
1,415.41
14.70
223.50
45.78
148.40
40.38
24.03
25.10
12.18
49.00
17.26
26.00
27.37
16.00
127.05
74.49
308.59
235.26
41.88
289.15
112.95
20.52
16.24
25.92
14.22
117.00
10.76
103.44
136.99
10.74

Customer
Customer 6401
Customer 6402
Customer 6403
Customer 6404
Customer 6405
Customer 6406
Customer 6407
Customer 6408
Customer 6409
Customer 6410
Customer 6411
Customer 6412
Customer 6413
Customer 6414
Customer 6415
Customer 6416
Customer 6417
Customer 6418
Customer 6419
Customer 6420
Customer 6421
Customer 6422
Customer 6423
Customer 6424
Customer 6425
Customer 6426
Customer 6427
Customer 6428
Customer 6429
Customer 6430
Customer 6431
Customer 6432
Customer 6433
Customer 6434
Customer 6435
Customer 6436
Customer 6437
Customer 6438
Customer 6439
Customer 6440
Customer 6441
Customer 6442
Customer 6443
Customer 6444
Customer 6445
Customer 6446
Customer 6447
Customer 6448
Customer 6449
Customer 6450

Restitution
Amount

$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$

10.94
162.26
40.80
1,692.00
26.19
1,026.53
153.81
76.99
31.78
53.23
63.00
32.25
36.00
26.76
53.97
21.42
36.39
51.62
573.52
78.00
23.73
64.61
28.65
203.03
35.57
15.88
38.15
27.59
40.89
252.93
18.00
18.69
27.04
12.20
275.33
289.76
121.50
113.43
126.50
22.04
43.89
121.16
14.75
14.78
15.99
31.92
117.21
63.25
193.28
203.85

Attachment A
Customer
Customer 6451
Customer 6452
Customer 6453
Customer 6454
Customer 6455
Customer 6456
Customer 6457
Customer 6458
Customer 6459
Customer 6460
Customer 6461
Customer 6462
Customer 6463
Customer 6464
Customer 6465
Customer 6466
Customer 6467
Customer 6468
Customer 6469
Customer 6470
Customer 6471
Customer 6472
Customer 6473
Customer 6474
Customer 6475
Customer 6476
Customer 6477
Customer 6478
Customer 6479
Customer 6480
Customer 6481
Customer 6482
Customer 6483
Customer 6484
Customer 6485
Customer 6486
Customer 6487
Customer 6488
Customer 6489
Customer 6490
Customer 6491
Customer 6492
Customer 6493
Customer 6494
Customer 6495
Customer 6496
Customer 6497
Customer 6498
Customer 6499
Customer 6500

Restitution
Amount

$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$

55.25
40.96
109.20
245.41
194.93
226.00
30.75
59.25
62.04
35.92
324.57
90.98
11.20
22.10
3,455.47
49.19
30.24
11.00
25.30
37.95
22.61
55.96
24.63
31.30
55.25
125.27
143.24
17.71
234.66
717.03
10.12
22.10
23.40
414.10
72.93
265.28
90.95
277.47
26.42
11.22
11.22
49.81
34.10
499.90
49.54
20.74
344.40
38.26
1,979.40
70.03

Customer
Customer 6501
Customer 6502
Customer 6503
Customer 6504
Customer 6505
Customer 6506
Customer 6507
Customer 6508
Customer 6509
Customer 6510
Customer 6511
Customer 6512
Customer 6513
Customer 6514
Customer 6515
Customer 6516
Customer 6517
Customer 6518
Customer 6519
Customer 6520
Customer 6521
Customer 6522
Customer 6523
Customer 6524
Customer 6525
Customer 6526
Customer 6527
Customer 6528
Customer 6529
Customer 6530
Customer 6531
Customer 6532
Customer 6533
Customer 6534
Customer 6535
Customer 6536
Customer 6537
Customer 6538
Customer 6539
Customer 6540
Customer 6541
Customer 6542
Customer 6543
Customer 6544
Customer 6545
Customer 6546
Customer 6547
Customer 6548
Customer 6549
Customer 6550

Restitution
Amount

$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$

49.85
102.90
1,635.08
35.51
53.20
765.10
20.84
131.65
229.24
999.45
166.98
27.36
252.00
33.17
330.10
490.86
48.16
50.40
12.42
16.68
222.00
11.62
10.77
25.98
669.42
14.00
249.85
35.23
40.37
173.31
439.20
37.90
48.55
901.40
42.84
109.20
38.06
158.84
38.28
11.82
420.98
170.63
12.97
603.00
18.90
173.84
27.00
87.50
10.20
61.63

Customer
Customer 6551
Customer 6552
Customer 6553
Customer 6554
Customer 6555
Customer 6556
Customer 6557
Customer 6558
Customer 6559
Customer 6560
Customer 6561
Customer 6562
Customer 6563
Customer 6564
Customer 6565
Customer 6566
Customer 6567
Customer 6568
Customer 6569
Customer 6570
Customer 6571
Customer 6572
Customer 6573
Customer 6574
Customer 6575
Customer 6576
Customer 6577
Customer 6578
Customer 6579
Customer 6580
Customer 6581
Customer 6582
Customer 6583
Customer 6584
Customer 6585
Customer 6586
Customer 6587
Customer 6588
Customer 6589
Customer 6590
Customer 6591
Customer 6592
Customer 6593
Customer 6594
Customer 6595
Customer 6596
Customer 6597
Customer 6598
Customer 6599
Customer 6600

Restitution
Amount

$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$

167.68
645.21
58.60
33.12
446.93
21.24
1,067.23
41.91
28.21
660.87
19.31
151.44
68.30
139.80
657.60
22.00
11.39
12.38
26.41
343.75
29.58
21.33
11.06
194.66
43.50
138.71
17.89
19.32
59.97
30.74
40.65
23.51
10.92
13.34
87.50
235.00
11.35
14.00
12.20
107.28
11.37
21.96
77.00
48.50
15.14
15.70
148.75
29.40
10.39
194.56

Attachment A
Customer
Customer 6601
Customer 6602
Customer 6603
Customer 6604
Customer 6605
Customer 6606
Customer 6607
Customer 6608
Customer 6609
Customer 6610
Customer 6611
Customer 6612
Customer 6613
Customer 6614
Customer 6615
Customer 6616
Customer 6617
Customer 6618
Customer 6619
Customer 6620
Customer 6621
Customer 6622
Customer 6623
Customer 6624
Customer 6625
Customer 6626
Customer 6627
Customer 6628
Customer 6629
Customer 6630
Customer 6631
Customer 6632
Customer 6633
Customer 6634
Customer 6635
Customer 6636
Customer 6637
Customer 6638
Customer 6639
Customer 6640
Customer 6641
Customer 6642
Customer 6643
Customer 6644
Customer 6645
Customer 6646
Customer 6647
Customer 6648
Customer 6649
Customer 6650

Restitution
Amount

$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$

16.68
175.00
60.02
11.10
10.96
92.98
449.02
27.18
67.50
31.88
11.50
166.00
20.75
698.75
57.13
91.00
77.89
10.83
184.14
39.63
32.23
14.27
182.78
80.60
194.81
308.44
44.13
338.85
405.91
30.19
25.19
16.75
61.96
56.97
299.32
13.88
23.20
50.42
24.20
69.49
37.00
158.36
133.00
62.26
141.09
16.47
185.28
2,917.08
39.73
41.99

Customer
Customer 6651
Customer 6652
Customer 6653
Customer 6654
Customer 6655
Customer 6656
Customer 6657
Customer 6658
Customer 6659
Customer 6660
Customer 6661
Customer 6662
Customer 6663
Customer 6664
Customer 6665
Customer 6666
Customer 6667
Customer 6668
Customer 6669
Customer 6670
Customer 6671
Customer 6672
Customer 6673
Customer 6674
Customer 6675
Customer 6676
Customer 6677
Customer 6678
Customer 6679
Customer 6680
Customer 6681
Customer 6682
Customer 6683
Customer 6684
Customer 6685
Customer 6686
Customer 6687
Customer 6688
Customer 6689
Customer 6690
Customer 6691
Customer 6692
Customer 6693
Customer 6694
Customer 6695
Customer 6696
Customer 6697
Customer 6698
Customer 6699
Customer 6700

Restitution
Amount

$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$

17.75
259.23
27.44
465.75
65.67
2,419.73
450.00
20.70
237.35
15.58
31.27
624.08
29.75
115.43
211.81
186.49
144.61
312.08
74.03
12.14
63.90
20.00
11.76
71.40
153.46
166.43
183.96
22.50
30.48
13.52
39.76
10.28
418.99
24.50
17.64
170.37
34.78
42.37
235.20
13.65
27.48
19.99
33.80
57.80
17.64
11.77
15.80
60.84
13.27
31.90

Customer
Customer 6701
Customer 6702
Customer 6703
Customer 6704
Customer 6705
Customer 6706
Customer 6707
Customer 6708
Customer 6709
Customer 6710
Customer 6711
Customer 6712
Customer 6713
Customer 6714
Customer 6715
Customer 6716
Customer 6717
Customer 6718
Customer 6719
Customer 6720
Customer 6721
Customer 6722
Customer 6723
Customer 6724
Customer 6725
Customer 6726
Customer 6727
Customer 6728
Customer 6729
Customer 6730
Customer 6731
Customer 6732
Customer 6733
Customer 6734
Customer 6735
Customer 6736
Customer 6737
Customer 6738
Customer 6739
Customer 6740
Customer 6741
Customer 6742
Customer 6743
Customer 6744
Customer 6745
Customer 6746
Customer 6747
Customer 6748
Customer 6749
Customer 6750

Restitution
Amount

$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$

67.99
13.52
23.68
300.96
33.80
20.86
77.50
1,575.95
204.18
100.23
11.04
14.08
46.94
170.41
124.77
199.88
21.71
64.00
21.37
21.50
53.70
28.92
20.09
16.44
10.32
25.67
24.00
29.15
19.72
67.60
22.00
54.08
15.12
18.95
41.27
10.30
10.96
59.00
128.00
33.80
20.28
124.40
10.30
178.10
13.60
18.54
12.66
260.61
10.73
11.96

Attachment A
Customer
Customer 6751
Customer 6752
Customer 6753
Customer 6754
Customer 6755
Customer 6756
Customer 6757
Customer 6758
Customer 6759
Customer 6760
Customer 6761
Customer 6762
Customer 6763
Customer 6764
Customer 6765
Customer 6766
Customer 6767
Customer 6768
Customer 6769
Customer 6770
Customer 6771
Customer 6772
Customer 6773
Customer 6774
Customer 6775
Customer 6776
Customer 6777
Customer 6778
Customer 6779
Customer 6780
Customer 6781
Customer 6782
Customer 6783
Customer 6784
Customer 6785
Customer 6786
Customer 6787
Customer 6788
Customer 6789
Customer 6790
Customer 6791
Customer 6792
Customer 6793
Customer 6794
Customer 6795
Customer 6796
Customer 6797
Customer 6798
Customer 6799
Customer 6800

Restitution
Amount

$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$

49.49
16.10
20.38
17.70
19.04
13.65
268.19
14.50
432.75
48.44
58.52
54.08
17.30
65.25
34.17
31.80
121.40
67.60
18.50
32.41
46.50
22.01
61.50
27.08
33.80
26.40
681.93
19.07
54.00
39.37
37.12
24.12
82.88
12.74
32.86
17.22
28.52
71.26
28.42
66.00
10.45
14.07
319.70
386.00
47.83
52.35
66.73
60.63
12.90
83.14

Customer
Customer 6801
Customer 6802
Customer 6803
Customer 6804
Customer 6805
Customer 6806
Customer 6807
Customer 6808
Customer 6809
Customer 6810
Customer 6811
Customer 6812
Customer 6813
Customer 6814
Customer 6815
Customer 6816
Customer 6817
Customer 6818
Customer 6819
Customer 6820
Customer 6821
Customer 6822
Customer 6823
Customer 6824
Customer 6825
Customer 6826
Customer 6827
Customer 6828
Customer 6829
Customer 6830
Customer 6831
Customer 6832
Customer 6833
Customer 6834
Customer 6835
Customer 6836
Customer 6837
Customer 6838
Customer 6839
Customer 6840
Customer 6841
Customer 6842
Customer 6843
Customer 6844
Customer 6845
Customer 6846
Customer 6847
Customer 6848
Customer 6849
Customer 6850

Restitution
Amount

$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$

81.34
170.52
10.36
13.00
98.86
50.13
92.83
10.42
27.90
10.67
237.89
18.30
22.08
19.29
26.73
139.65
67.06
14.42
32.69
20.28
70.60
998.53
52.07
27.00
10.52
160.30
58.70
157.48
316.61
18.13
193.58
127.76
115.30
254.10
19.61
83.00
30.59
34.55
21.15
10.78
129.69
122.50
388.29
87.34
11.20
67.00
688.50
19.43
34.15
113.15

Customer
Customer 6851
Customer 6852
Customer 6853
Customer 6854
Customer 6855
Customer 6856
Customer 6857
Customer 6858
Customer 6859
Customer 6860
Customer 6861
Customer 6862
Customer 6863
Customer 6864
Customer 6865
Customer 6866
Customer 6867
Customer 6868
Customer 6869
Customer 6870
Customer 6871
Customer 6872
Customer 6873
Customer 6874
Customer 6875
Customer 6876
Customer 6877
Customer 6878
Customer 6879
Customer 6880
Customer 6881
Customer 6882
Customer 6883
Customer 6884
Customer 6885
Customer 6886
Customer 6887
Customer 6888
Customer 6889
Customer 6890
Customer 6891
Customer 6892
Customer 6893
Customer 6894
Customer 6895
Customer 6896
Customer 6897
Customer 6898
Customer 6899
Customer 6900

Restitution
Amount

$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$

34.76
16.64
12.50
162.19
104.98
83.14
61.80
44.40
61.29
92.24
44.60
19.65
11.08
14.70
452.34
34.48
112.38
123.20
38.60
31.88
90.39
70.30
18.80
100.40
19.60
111.32
19.59
18.88
233.37
15.90
72.45
95.87
10.71
48.30
10.69
611.64
85.02
29.17
60.62
49.25
30.33
15.84
30.29
31.29
10.16
411.98
132.30
15.88
355.50
14.54

Attachment A
Customer
Customer 6901
Customer 6902
Customer 6903
Customer 6904
Customer 6905
Customer 6906
Customer 6907
Customer 6908
Customer 6909
Customer 6910
Customer 6911
Customer 6912
Customer 6913
Customer 6914
Customer 6915
Customer 6916
Customer 6917
Customer 6918
Customer 6919
Customer 6920
Customer 6921
Customer 6922
Customer 6923
Customer 6924
Customer 6925
Customer 6926
Customer 6927
Customer 6928
Customer 6929
Customer 6930
Customer 6931
Customer 6932
Customer 6933
Customer 6934
Customer 6935
Customer 6936
Customer 6937
Customer 6938
Customer 6939
Customer 6940
Customer 6941
Customer 6942
Customer 6943
Customer 6944
Customer 6945
Customer 6946
Customer 6947
Customer 6948
Customer 6949
Customer 6950

Restitution
Amount

$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$

39.86
33.63
91.04
56.23
20.44
17.60
18.40
112.20
11.63
34.74
13.54
181.66
15.60
143.74
15.55
30.00
4,949.25
125.05
198.42
38.92
87.00
13.83
51.92
111.74
11.12
10.43
16.50
510.00
39.00
21.64
26.00
39.59
290.51
476.88
272.92
40.50
52.40
195.18
35.55
19.49
537.30
26.17
35.76
67.11
668.50
13.86
275.00
59.70
72.00
80.15

Customer
Customer 6951
Customer 6952
Customer 6953
Customer 6954
Customer 6955
Customer 6956
Customer 6957
Customer 6958
Customer 6959
Customer 6960
Customer 6961
Customer 6962
Customer 6963
Customer 6964
Customer 6965
Customer 6966
Customer 6967
Customer 6968
Customer 6969
Customer 6970
Customer 6971
Customer 6972
Customer 6973
Customer 6974
Customer 6975
Customer 6976
Customer 6977
Customer 6978
Customer 6979
Customer 6980
Customer 6981
Customer 6982
Customer 6983
Customer 6984
Customer 6985
Customer 6986
Customer 6987
Customer 6988
Customer 6989
Customer 6990
Customer 6991
Customer 6992
Customer 6993
Customer 6994
Customer 6995
Customer 6996
Customer 6997
Customer 6998
Customer 6999
Customer 7000

Restitution
Amount

$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$

220.99
37.89
17.91
23.02
78.82
41.19
13.56
125.42
22.60
141.00
150.63
266.00
381.35
1,186.31
11.25
246.25
422.00
68.70
126.60
205.12
19.20
373.55
175.00
154.33
393.28
28.05
37.60
2,690.90
68.83
18.99
55.13
25.41
21.44
1,135.69
17.39
68.46
167.36
18.92
40.02
206.00
86.46
182.85
97.44
39.00
91.63
96.56
62.69
212.79
278.74
129.30

Customer
Customer 7001
Customer 7002
Customer 7003
Customer 7004
Customer 7005
Customer 7006
Customer 7007
Customer 7008
Customer 7009
Customer 7010
Customer 7011
Customer 7012
Customer 7013
Customer 7014
Customer 7015
Customer 7016
Customer 7017
Customer 7018
Customer 7019
Customer 7020
Customer 7021
Customer 7022
Customer 7023
Customer 7024
Customer 7025
Customer 7026
Customer 7027
Customer 7028
Customer 7029
Customer 7030
Customer 7031
Customer 7032
Customer 7033
Customer 7034
Customer 7035
Customer 7036
Customer 7037
Customer 7038
Customer 7039
Customer 7040
Customer 7041
Customer 7042
Customer 7043
Customer 7044
Customer 7045
Customer 7046
Customer 7047
Customer 7048
Customer 7049
Customer 7050

Restitution
Amount

$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$

246.00
118.02
18.80
36.76
946.80
31.14
44.29
180.93
26.99
38.08
82.05
293.45
39.90
77.71
267.16
24.80
53.76
129.85
167.14
217.45
122.00
96.40
104.93
15.69
11.04
19.29
19.06
271.35
16.97
267.20
85.72
341.81
274.95
30.22
120.91
49.74
13.92
21.30
76.05
31.53
36.56
195.32
224.37
45.23
14.58
985.50
1,037.98
102.33
27.06
105.59

Attachment A
Customer
Customer 7051
Customer 7052
Customer 7053
Customer 7054
Customer 7055
Customer 7056
Customer 7057
Customer 7058
Customer 7059
Customer 7060
Customer 7061
Customer 7062
Customer 7063
Customer 7064
Customer 7065
Customer 7066
Customer 7067
Customer 7068
Customer 7069
Customer 7070
Customer 7071
Customer 7072
Customer 7073
Customer 7074
Customer 7075
Customer 7076
Customer 7077
Customer 7078
Customer 7079
Customer 7080
Customer 7081
Customer 7082
Customer 7083
Customer 7084
Customer 7085
Customer 7086
Customer 7087
Customer 7088
Customer 7089
Customer 7090
Customer 7091
Customer 7092
Customer 7093
Customer 7094
Customer 7095
Customer 7096
Customer 7097
Customer 7098
Customer 7099
Customer 7100

Restitution
Amount

$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$

49.30
75.04
17.56
735.00
196.50
12.82
107.24
21.04
48.50
271.30
627.28
41.31
15.64
45.08
17.10
207.36
15.00
330.83
66.62
282.00
77.00
690.08
19.82
47.85
62.20
3,316.92
127.00
273.04
211.22
1,192.59
46.00
29.18
40.96
56.65
30.00
28.29
23.00
92.74
28.27
12.80
464.01
73.50
55.30
1,549.78
274.97
108.38
334.79
14.59
401.10
20.94

Customer
Customer 7101
Customer 7102
Customer 7103
Customer 7104
Customer 7105
Customer 7106
Customer 7107
Customer 7108
Customer 7109
Customer 7110
Customer 7111
Customer 7112
Customer 7113
Customer 7114
Customer 7115
Customer 7116
Customer 7117
Customer 7118
Customer 7119
Customer 7120
Customer 7121
Customer 7122
Customer 7123
Customer 7124
Customer 7125
Customer 7126
Customer 7127
Customer 7128
Customer 7129
Customer 7130
Customer 7131
Customer 7132
Customer 7133
Customer 7134
Customer 7135
Customer 7136
Customer 7137
Customer 7138
Customer 7139
Customer 7140
Customer 7141
Customer 7142
Customer 7143
Customer 7144
Customer 7145
Customer 7146
Customer 7147
Customer 7148
Customer 7149
Customer 7150

Restitution
Amount

$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$

70.29
16.28
88.18
168.91
23.61
66.39
162.61
86.50
12.62
26.74
40.10
13.08
20.46
29.52
432.00
106.93
11.03
15.70
141.00
37.64
21.52
615.88
31.85
1,377.20
1,064.00
296.67
123.75
12.92
76.00
43.67
620.00
115.80
152.78
156.86
134.85
33.08
95.25
11.60
45.79
126.89
76.70
26.00
122.40
30.88
58.43
66.70
15.58
35.55
56.20
267.36

Customer
Customer 7151
Customer 7152
Customer 7153
Customer 7154
Customer 7155
Customer 7156
Customer 7157
Customer 7158
Customer 7159
Customer 7160
Customer 7161
Customer 7162
Customer 7163
Customer 7164
Customer 7165
Customer 7166
Customer 7167
Customer 7168
Customer 7169
Customer 7170
Customer 7171
Customer 7172
Customer 7173
Customer 7174
Customer 7175
Customer 7176
Customer 7177
Customer 7178
Customer 7179
Customer 7180
Customer 7181
Customer 7182
Customer 7183
Customer 7184
Customer 7185
Customer 7186
Customer 7187
Customer 7188
Customer 7189
Customer 7190
Customer 7191
Customer 7192
Customer 7193
Customer 7194
Customer 7195
Customer 7196
Customer 7197
Customer 7198
Customer 7199
Customer 7200

Restitution
Amount

$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$

94.50
11.07
182.17
27.72
10.17
70.50
183.36
101.04
27.67
100.68
611.61
130.56
164.09
72.76
80.70
18.64
17.32
45.00
344.00
44.75
377.10
89.92
38.20
10.63
276.00
108.96
395.06
52.48
53.77
35.86
17.21
34.47
17.09
952.25
38.40
41.55
96.55
24.60
415.40
97.51
64.73
60.48
82.61
32.18
10.70
38.82
65.25
12.73
1,430.00
29.60

Attachment A
Customer
Customer 7201
Customer 7202
Customer 7203
Customer 7204
Customer 7205
Customer 7206
Customer 7207
Customer 7208
Customer 7209
Customer 7210
Customer 7211
Customer 7212
Customer 7213
Customer 7214
Customer 7215
Customer 7216
Customer 7217
Customer 7218
Customer 7219
Customer 7220
Customer 7221
Customer 7222
Customer 7223
Customer 7224
Customer 7225
Customer 7226
Customer 7227
Customer 7228
Customer 7229
Customer 7230
Customer 7231
Customer 7232
Customer 7233
Customer 7234
Customer 7235
Customer 7236
Customer 7237
Customer 7238
Customer 7239
Customer 7240
Customer 7241
Customer 7242
Customer 7243
Customer 7244
Customer 7245
Customer 7246
Customer 7247
Customer 7248
Customer 7249
Customer 7250

Restitution
Amount

$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$

229.50
15.08
10.08
12.17
513.30
21.09
10.32
166.94
43.87
289.63
101.74
41.92
51.00
95.83
14.93
20.00
18.56
28.81
66.54
76.20
171.00
53.93
19.98
44.73
26.10
29.96
12.72
16.44
99.15
12.60
1,246.17
41.00
46.74
21.92
89.73
50.97
27.67
19.85
18.90
322.17
27.67
325.33
130.82
70.00
10.12
56.99
183.92
111.98
104.60
18.20

Customer
Customer 7251
Customer 7252
Customer 7253
Customer 7254
Customer 7255
Customer 7256
Customer 7257
Customer 7258
Customer 7259
Customer 7260
Customer 7261
Customer 7262
Customer 7263
Customer 7264
Customer 7265
Customer 7266
Customer 7267
Customer 7268
Customer 7269
Customer 7270
Customer 7271
Customer 7272
Customer 7273
Customer 7274
Customer 7275
Customer 7276
Customer 7277
Customer 7278
Customer 7279
Customer 7280
Customer 7281
Customer 7282
Customer 7283
Customer 7284
Customer 7285
Customer 7286
Customer 7287
Customer 7288
Customer 7289
Customer 7290
Customer 7291
Customer 7292
Customer 7293
Customer 7294
Customer 7295
Customer 7296
Customer 7297
Customer 7298
Customer 7299
Customer 7300

Restitution
Amount

$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$

17.06
71.86
48.00
47.00
3,891.58
120.45
459.09
125.83
243.80
90.00
1,161.61
256.65
24.21
13.16
1,645.00
662.36
338.70
39.47
91.16
345.92
50.45
250.20
154.16
366.25
115.81
22.05
37.92
135.00
18.55
81.39
315.72
260.42
576.00
157.62
23.85
26.66
41.00
552.00
73.21
94.88
5,090.52
36.15
51.76
149.05
4,815.31
81.82
268.48
271.85
288.90
58.00

Customer
Customer 7301
Customer 7302
Customer 7303
Customer 7304
Customer 7305
Customer 7306
Customer 7307
Customer 7308
Customer 7309
Customer 7310
Customer 7311
Customer 7312
Customer 7313
Customer 7314
Customer 7315
Customer 7316
Customer 7317
Customer 7318
Customer 7319
Customer 7320
Customer 7321
Customer 7322
Customer 7323
Customer 7324
Customer 7325
Customer 7326
Customer 7327
Customer 7328
Customer 7329
Customer 7330
Customer 7331
Customer 7332
Customer 7333
Customer 7334
Customer 7335
Customer 7336
Customer 7337
Customer 7338
Customer 7339
Customer 7340
Customer 7341
Customer 7342
Customer 7343
Customer 7344
Customer 7345
Customer 7346
Customer 7347
Customer 7348
Customer 7349
Customer 7350

Restitution
Amount

$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$

36.69
27.60
21.63
48.19
40.50
937.50
181.69
217.30
228.33
52.86
166.04
11.00
268.50
154.20
101.93
65.74
12.41
17.07
10.71
21.68
385.75
44.00
50.10
26.99
244.50
94.29
90.00
11.11
34.58
18.62
18.52
18.40
19.12
96.50
58.25
198.38
290.43
91.22
46.86
102.66
18.40
435.37
104.87
12.40
49.63
13.92
30.68
11,298.62
222.18
28.98

Attachment A
Customer
Customer 7351
Customer 7352
Customer 7353
Customer 7354
Customer 7355
Customer 7356
Customer 7357
Customer 7358
Customer 7359
Customer 7360
Customer 7361
Customer 7362
Customer 7363
Customer 7364
Customer 7365
Customer 7366
Customer 7367
Customer 7368
Customer 7369
Customer 7370
Customer 7371
Customer 7372
Customer 7373
Customer 7374
Customer 7375
Customer 7376
Customer 7377
Customer 7378
Customer 7379
Customer 7380
Customer 7381
Customer 7382
Customer 7383
Customer 7384
Customer 7385
Customer 7386
Customer 7387
Customer 7388
Customer 7389
Customer 7390
Customer 7391
Customer 7392
Customer 7393
Customer 7394
Customer 7395
Customer 7396
Customer 7397
Customer 7398
Customer 7399
Customer 7400

Restitution
Amount

$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$

43.05
317.22
10.89
52.65
88.43
285.96
664.55
95.70
208.00
16.04
84.64
25.82
33.30
58.50
14.20
27.50
13.55
114.71
206.04
19.32
280.00
22.87
104.49
232.13
19.56
7,469.75
535.56
116.59
78.93
71.89
112.00
21.88
32.34
114.56
218.87
214.47
245.20
92.80
64.20
26.99
37.54
1,505.83
10.70
236.24
84.18
168.70
29.71
72.50
51.33
115.00

Customer
Customer 7401
Customer 7402
Customer 7403
Customer 7404
Customer 7405
Customer 7406
Customer 7407
Customer 7408
Customer 7409
Customer 7410
Customer 7411
Customer 7412
Customer 7413
Customer 7414
Customer 7415
Customer 7416
Customer 7417
Customer 7418
Customer 7419
Customer 7420
Customer 7421
Customer 7422
Customer 7423
Customer 7424
Customer 7425
Customer 7426
Customer 7427
Customer 7428
Customer 7429
Customer 7430
Customer 7431
Customer 7432
Customer 7433
Customer 7434
Customer 7435
Customer 7436
Customer 7437
Customer 7438
Customer 7439
Customer 7440
Customer 7441
Customer 7442
Customer 7443
Customer 7444
Customer 7445
Customer 7446
Customer 7447
Customer 7448
Customer 7449
Customer 7450

Restitution
Amount

$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$

165.60
403.88
513.30
30.00
86.92
18.00
123.08
17.39
27.56
29.40
120.24
100.31
19.90
120.75
29.64
22.04
64.00
202.30
32.48
168.94
39.72
24.35
44.49
13.97
19.96
116.52
1,268.11
193.26
29.24
11.82
63.36
61.69
24.88
37.13
201.81
250.16
583.00
143.55
39.65
47.30
101.30
588.28
49.99
332.96
36.40
44.85
340.00
3,761.50
20.09
293.44

Customer
Customer 7451
Customer 7452
Customer 7453
Customer 7454
Customer 7455
Customer 7456
Customer 7457
Customer 7458
Customer 7459
Customer 7460
Customer 7461
Customer 7462
Customer 7463
Customer 7464
Customer 7465
Customer 7466
Customer 7467
Customer 7468
Customer 7469
Customer 7470
Customer 7471
Customer 7472
Customer 7473
Customer 7474
Customer 7475
Customer 7476
Customer 7477
Customer 7478
Customer 7479
Customer 7480
Customer 7481
Customer 7482
Customer 7483
Customer 7484
Customer 7485
Customer 7486
Customer 7487
Customer 7488
Customer 7489
Customer 7490
Customer 7491
Customer 7492
Customer 7493
Customer 7494
Customer 7495
Customer 7496
Customer 7497
Customer 7498
Customer 7499
Customer 7500

Restitution
Amount

$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$

104.02
25.81
50.00
16.15
25.55
1,533.55
318.00
265.67
27.00
21.49
88.71
3,314.70
86.62
64.83
114.21
27.71
34.96
18.31
2,353.80
23.15
95.57
210.83
53.70
250.48
133.29
96.00
16.25
60.45
17.04
15.58
72.23
35.63
828.10
48.95
335.50
52.38
158.99
264.77
14.64
30.20
131.04
89.14
24.81
15.45
55.06
26.04
160.47
513.33
410.66
10.28

Attachment A
Customer
Customer 7501
Customer 7502
Customer 7503
Customer 7504
Customer 7505
Customer 7506
Customer 7507
Customer 7508
Customer 7509
Customer 7510
Customer 7511
Customer 7512
Customer 7513
Customer 7514
Customer 7515
Customer 7516
Customer 7517
Customer 7518
Customer 7519
Customer 7520
Customer 7521
Customer 7522
Customer 7523
Customer 7524
Customer 7525
Customer 7526
Customer 7527
Customer 7528
Customer 7529
Customer 7530
Customer 7531
Customer 7532
Customer 7533
Customer 7534
Customer 7535
Customer 7536
Customer 7537
Customer 7538
Customer 7539
Customer 7540
Customer 7541
Customer 7542
Customer 7543
Customer 7544
Customer 7545
Customer 7546
Customer 7547
Customer 7548
Customer 7549
Customer 7550

Restitution
Amount

$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$

254.95
30.50
41.71
69.12
720.00
21.14
76.91
1,095.90
68.13
307.63
17.43
27.20
21.30
503.97
65.71
54.37
134.10
126.80
112.68
82.75
18.25
167.55
37.50
149.23
42.17
86.83
58.22
199.81
85.89
125.40
3,001.19
3,630.25
71.17
46.02
10.13
95.59
996.30
1,686.27
681.17
380.06
80.00
15.50
56.92
14.41
35.96
99.64
64.33
318.43
37.84
25.85

Customer
Customer 7551
Customer 7552
Customer 7553
Customer 7554
Customer 7555
Customer 7556
Customer 7557
Customer 7558
Customer 7559
Customer 7560
Customer 7561
Customer 7562
Customer 7563
Customer 7564
Customer 7565
Customer 7566
Customer 7567
Customer 7568
Customer 7569
Customer 7570
Customer 7571
Customer 7572
Customer 7573
Customer 7574
Customer 7575
Customer 7576
Customer 7577
Customer 7578
Customer 7579
Customer 7580
Customer 7581
Customer 7582
Customer 7583
Customer 7584
Customer 7585
Customer 7586
Customer 7587
Customer 7588
Customer 7589
Customer 7590
Customer 7591
Customer 7592
Customer 7593
Customer 7594
Customer 7595
Customer 7596
Customer 7597
Customer 7598
Customer 7599
Customer 7600

Restitution
Amount

$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$

526.14
74.41
13.76
40.30
23.20
193.94
704.80
38.00
40.16
248.68
123.02
166.02
45.20
73.27
15.69
279.75
24.26
39.67
4,594.75
10.63
14.69
85.97
186.45
162.09
33.51
30.40
86.49
10.53
52.31
398.00
12.88
192.34
14.47
829.58
57.57
38.78
71.49
644.31
27.20
17.40
30.15
122.34
916.61
1,787.49
20.92
84.00
181.39
14.88
39.51
936.55

Customer
Customer 7601
Customer 7602
Customer 7603
Customer 7604
Customer 7605
Customer 7606
Customer 7607
Customer 7608
Customer 7609
Customer 7610
Customer 7611
Customer 7612
Customer 7613
Customer 7614
Customer 7615
Customer 7616
Customer 7617
Customer 7618
Customer 7619
Customer 7620
Customer 7621
Customer 7622
Customer 7623
Customer 7624
Customer 7625
Customer 7626
Customer 7627
Customer 7628
Customer 7629
Customer 7630
Customer 7631
Customer 7632
Customer 7633
Customer 7634
Customer 7635
Customer 7636
Customer 7637
Customer 7638
Customer 7639
Customer 7640
Customer 7641
Customer 7642
Customer 7643
Customer 7644
Customer 7645
Customer 7646
Customer 7647
Customer 7648
Customer 7649
Customer 7650

Restitution
Amount

$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$

77.25
231.60
72.00
384.09
12.65
154.14
75.88
1,100.00
98.70
28.35
272.65
25.80
98.70
77.90
343.33
431.77
22.90
394.20
344.32
64.33
431.05
15.51
19.43
161.15
76.85
349.20
150.59
1,050.75
265.46
140.50
203.38
537.75
31.44
3,442.71
32.85
20.17
76.55
604.20
35.80
76.00
246.80
44.32
7,599.27
16.20
81.82
14.75
26.55
60.79
137.65
29.29

Attachment A
Customer
Customer 7651
Customer 7652
Customer 7653
Customer 7654
Customer 7655
Customer 7656
Customer 7657
Customer 7658
Customer 7659
Customer 7660
Customer 7661
Customer 7662
Customer 7663
Customer 7664
Customer 7665
Customer 7666
Customer 7667
Customer 7668
Customer 7669
Customer 7670
Customer 7671
Customer 7672
Customer 7673
Customer 7674
Customer 7675
Customer 7676
Customer 7677
Customer 7678
Customer 7679
Customer 7680
Customer 7681
Customer 7682
Customer 7683
Customer 7684
Customer 7685
Customer 7686
Customer 7687
Customer 7688
Customer 7689
Customer 7690
Customer 7691
Customer 7692
Customer 7693
Customer 7694
Customer 7695
Customer 7696
Customer 7697
Customer 7698
Customer 7699
Customer 7700

Restitution
Amount

$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$

143.35
178.46
68.50
262.71
26.99
34.77
33.22
16.32
79.45
16.54
19.21
66.31
567.90
17.00
31.28
12.20
283.20
18.99
17.26
70.85
59.38
125.27
34.12
97.21
349.35
142.50
45.69
20.30
1,804.00
103.26
81.25
314.22
83.65
10.06
21.00
91.38
1,304.88
550.25
612.18
487.70
142.60
147.00
7,593.26
479.37
152.30
243.28
23.50
14.87
45.69
99.48

Customer
Customer 7701
Customer 7702
Customer 7703
Customer 7704
Customer 7705
Customer 7706
Customer 7707
Customer 7708
Customer 7709
Customer 7710
Customer 7711
Customer 7712
Customer 7713
Customer 7714
Customer 7715
Customer 7716
Customer 7717
Customer 7718
Customer 7719
Customer 7720
Customer 7721
Customer 7722
Customer 7723
Customer 7724
Customer 7725
Customer 7726
Customer 7727
Customer 7728
Customer 7729
Customer 7730
Customer 7731
Customer 7732
Customer 7733
Customer 7734
Customer 7735
Customer 7736
Customer 7737
Customer 7738
Customer 7739
Customer 7740
Customer 7741
Customer 7742
Customer 7743
Customer 7744
Customer 7745
Customer 7746
Customer 7747
Customer 7748
Customer 7749
Customer 7750

Restitution
Amount

$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$

16.61
39.20
635.76
350.29
38.20
532.00
14.59
38.32
659.89
50.68
45.33
2,338.51
865.34
63.06
149.55
16.23
2,025.99
32.40
336.45
26.78
223.95
243.20
427.20
75.75
36.23
81.00
39.20
209.59
10.90
189.38
36.24
63.71
155.97
86.94
168.75
135.96
101.31
140.73
54.00
128.64
17.10
51.80
15.84
1,897.96
2,625.00
264.25
12.66
24.02
28.17
240.24

Customer
Customer 7751
Customer 7752
Customer 7753
Customer 7754
Customer 7755
Customer 7756
Customer 7757
Customer 7758
Customer 7759
Customer 7760
Customer 7761
Customer 7762
Customer 7763
Customer 7764
Customer 7765
Customer 7766
Customer 7767
Customer 7768
Customer 7769
Customer 7770
Customer 7771
Customer 7772
Customer 7773
Customer 7774
Customer 7775
Customer 7776
Customer 7777
Customer 7778
Customer 7779
Customer 7780
Customer 7781
Customer 7782
Customer 7783
Customer 7784
Customer 7785
Customer 7786
Customer 7787
Customer 7788
Customer 7789
Customer 7790
Customer 7791
Customer 7792
Customer 7793
Customer 7794
Customer 7795
Customer 7796
Customer 7797
Customer 7798
Customer 7799
Customer 7800

Restitution
Amount

$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$

2,145.00
69.97
11.16
27.60
36.27
63.18
159.50
2,590.00
78.53
11.28
347.00
15.42
149.36
37.67
688.84
25.04
26.96
63.82
33.54
15.90
119.96
50.51
1,138.99
206.00
18.00
97.92
2,640.00
22.94
14.70
173.50
12.40
40.23
119.20
16.80
589.05
16.33
43.20
147.26
477.89
63.46
649.20
43.00
21.24
174.42
16.42
29.43
23.28
276.90
1,106.25
1,399.99

Attachment A
Customer
Customer 7801
Customer 7802
Customer 7803
Customer 7804
Customer 7805
Customer 7806
Customer 7807
Customer 7808
Customer 7809
Customer 7810
Customer 7811
Customer 7812
Customer 7813
Customer 7814
Customer 7815
Customer 7816
Customer 7817
Customer 7818
Customer 7819
Customer 7820
Customer 7821
Customer 7822
Customer 7823
Customer 7824
Customer 7825
Customer 7826
Customer 7827
Customer 7828
Customer 7829
Customer 7830
Customer 7831
Customer 7832
Customer 7833
Customer 7834
Customer 7835
Customer 7836
Customer 7837
Customer 7838
Customer 7839
Customer 7840
Customer 7841
Customer 7842
Customer 7843
Customer 7844
Customer 7845
Customer 7846
Customer 7847
Customer 7848
Customer 7849
Customer 7850

Restitution
Amount

$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$

11.04
179.24
631.80
733.07
6,213.65
252.03
10.20
119.04
116.40
40.56
145.07
631.60
17.62
464.15
58.66
29.10
23.05
70.06
110.58
41.02
317.58
15.51
68.87
10.35
19.50
34.20
741.93
25.52
24.24
421.11
30.43
58.71
106.28
37.08
18.69
30.74
48.95
321.44
31.76
115.00
18.65
41.31
159.20
22.38
108.17
46.49
17.37
14.45
12.00
25.30

Customer
Customer 7851
Customer 7852
Customer 7853
Customer 7854
Customer 7855
Customer 7856
Customer 7857
Customer 7858
Customer 7859
Customer 7860
Customer 7861
Customer 7862
Customer 7863
Customer 7864
Customer 7865
Customer 7866
Customer 7867
Customer 7868
Customer 7869
Customer 7870
Customer 7871
Customer 7872
Customer 7873
Customer 7874
Customer 7875
Customer 7876
Customer 7877
Customer 7878
Customer 7879
Customer 7880
Customer 7881
Customer 7882
Customer 7883
Customer 7884
Customer 7885
Customer 7886
Customer 7887
Customer 7888
Customer 7889
Customer 7890
Customer 7891
Customer 7892
Customer 7893
Customer 7894
Customer 7895
Customer 7896
Customer 7897
Customer 7898
Customer 7899
Customer 7900

Restitution
Amount

$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$

131.53
161.76
22.56
101.00
140.25
119.25
19.35
66.73
256.55
13.78
872.67
33.40
134.99
232.55
44.00
481.99
352.49
294.24
25.13
241.98
63.83
15.64
70.16
44.00
16.89
13.60
538.25
78.57
26.31
135.18
72.80
85.20
345.26
31.37
180.00
12.68
134.48
93.08
69.97
49.52
52.03
23.10
17.40
31.22
21.24
137.84
29.75
23.25
310.50
27.68

Customer
Customer 7901
Customer 7902
Customer 7903
Customer 7904
Customer 7905
Customer 7906
Customer 7907
Customer 7908
Customer 7909
Customer 7910
Customer 7911
Customer 7912
Customer 7913
Customer 7914
Customer 7915
Customer 7916
Customer 7917
Customer 7918
Customer 7919
Customer 7920
Customer 7921
Customer 7922
Customer 7923
Customer 7924
Customer 7925
Customer 7926
Customer 7927
Customer 7928
Customer 7929
Customer 7930
Customer 7931
Customer 7932
Customer 7933
Customer 7934
Customer 7935
Customer 7936
Customer 7937
Customer 7938
Customer 7939
Customer 7940
Customer 7941
Customer 7942
Customer 7943
Customer 7944
Customer 7945
Customer 7946
Customer 7947
Customer 7948
Customer 7949
Customer 7950

Restitution
Amount

$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$

32.18
50.12
113.48
10.41
818.66
36.40
114.64
188.00
30.88
31.78
69.76
10.54
125.44
17.22
13.00
12.66
257.55
64.39
16.67
104.06
45.34
54.97
55.48
22.11
125.05
320.00
208.55
17.84
29.82
226.00
11.23
27.65
139.68
109.90
55.26
100.63
46.79
24.24
332.42
374.02
77.00
32.73
38.89
27.34
3,514.00
66.92
81.36
15.10
230.20
199.49

Attachment A
Customer
Customer 7951
Customer 7952
Customer 7953
Customer 7954
Customer 7955
Customer 7956
Customer 7957
Customer 7958
Customer 7959
Customer 7960
Customer 7961
Customer 7962
Customer 7963
Customer 7964
Customer 7965
Customer 7966
Customer 7967
Customer 7968
Customer 7969
Customer 7970
Customer 7971
Customer 7972
Customer 7973
Customer 7974
Customer 7975
Customer 7976
Customer 7977
Customer 7978
Customer 7979
Customer 7980
Customer 7981
Customer 7982
Customer 7983
Customer 7984
Customer 7985
Customer 7986
Customer 7987
Customer 7988
Customer 7989
Customer 7990
Customer 7991
Customer 7992
Customer 7993
Customer 7994
Customer 7995
Customer 7996
Customer 7997
Customer 7998
Customer 7999
Customer 8000

Restitution
Amount

$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$

227.87
77.89
27.00
22.22
17.92
10.87
206.35
103.71
15.86
20.00
8,488.00
65.45
45.65
766.50
16.74
61.00
111.82
10.64
874.32
56.78
41.82
18.34
2,746.70
58.40
13.00
269.00
23.87
78.00
119.22
39.41
21.50
198.96
39.25
22.50
71.00
15.84
17.30
396.26
43.50
12.15
26.01
1,862.43
12.80
20.10
39.36
55.76
362.31
36.00
1,795.50
30.00

Customer
Customer 8001
Customer 8002
Customer 8003
Customer 8004
Customer 8005
Customer 8006
Customer 8007
Customer 8008
Customer 8009
Customer 8010
Customer 8011
Customer 8012
Customer 8013
Customer 8014
Customer 8015
Customer 8016
Customer 8017
Customer 8018
Customer 8019
Customer 8020
Customer 8021
Customer 8022
Customer 8023
Customer 8024
Customer 8025
Customer 8026
Customer 8027
Customer 8028
Customer 8029
Customer 8030
Customer 8031
Customer 8032
Customer 8033
Customer 8034
Customer 8035
Customer 8036
Customer 8037
Customer 8038
Customer 8039
Customer 8040
Customer 8041
Customer 8042
Customer 8043
Customer 8044
Customer 8045
Customer 8046
Customer 8047
Customer 8048
Customer 8049
Customer 8050

Restitution
Amount

$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$

113.00
13.54
36.80
38.90
54.81
164.53
39.60
16.63
26.61
343.00
106.00
14.45
138.05
25.19
78.25
23.28
19.17
48.58
20.10
18.00
21.15
21.37
11.82
77.03
195.00
107.10
433.96
46.40
20.10
59.76
880.00
28.35
24.50
23.31
109.61
180.76
18.09
23.31
178.72
38.60
56.47
1,689.60
10.04
327.00
78.00
234.61
73.98
56.71
74.26
13.25

Customer
Customer 8051
Customer 8052
Customer 8053
Customer 8054
Customer 8055
Customer 8056
Customer 8057
Customer 8058
Customer 8059
Customer 8060
Customer 8061
Customer 8062
Customer 8063
Customer 8064
Customer 8065
Customer 8066
Customer 8067
Customer 8068
Customer 8069
Customer 8070
Customer 8071
Customer 8072
Customer 8073
Customer 8074
Customer 8075
Customer 8076
Customer 8077
Customer 8078
Customer 8079
Customer 8080
Customer 8081
Customer 8082
Customer 8083
Customer 8084
Customer 8085
Customer 8086
Customer 8087
Customer 8088
Customer 8089
Customer 8090
Customer 8091
Customer 8092
Customer 8093
Customer 8094
Customer 8095
Customer 8096
Customer 8097
Customer 8098
Customer 8099
Customer 8100

Restitution
Amount

$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$

67.65
11.47
51.40
17.48
309.28
28.24
24.68
929.75
83.51
85.64
74.10
86.07
35.02
81.12
187.37
1,644.19
146.97
20.62
163.10
194.14
44.34
584.41
164.63
42.61
152.70
166.13
414.59
17.78
1,795.12
38.72
42.12
28.81
159.78
14.69
32.62
27.80
118.25
28.71
11.36
77.85
41.62
19.53
477.38
48.93
87.76
93.24
5,787.87
140.55
230.85
64.71

Attachment A
Customer
Customer 8101
Customer 8102
Customer 8103
Customer 8104
Customer 8105
Customer 8106
Customer 8107
Customer 8108
Customer 8109
Customer 8110
Customer 8111
Customer 8112
Customer 8113
Customer 8114
Customer 8115
Customer 8116
Customer 8117
Customer 8118
Customer 8119
Customer 8120
Customer 8121
Customer 8122
Customer 8123
Customer 8124
Customer 8125
Customer 8126
Customer 8127
Customer 8128
Customer 8129
Customer 8130
Customer 8131
Customer 8132
Customer 8133
Customer 8134
Customer 8135
Customer 8136
Customer 8137
Customer 8138
Customer 8139
Customer 8140
Customer 8141
Customer 8142
Customer 8143
Customer 8144
Customer 8145
Customer 8146
Customer 8147
Customer 8148
Customer 8149
Customer 8150

Restitution
Amount

$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$

78.35
2,315.00
104.02
44.84
17.89
146.70
845.35
4,927.42
340.70
173.54
1,079.33
13.59
547.37
647.10
163.10
110.60
119.16
156.16
809.64
147.70
47.85
124.56
502.09
29.03
38.95
165.70
45.93
21.85
21.57
148.17
78.45
93.44
676.95
1,130.70
77.85
46.44
383.50
125.70
180.96
53.69
163.36
113.55
466.07
103.18
46.05
90.84
1,232.41
66.28
71.00
35,369.64

Customer
Customer 8151
Customer 8152
Customer 8153
Customer 8154
Customer 8155
Customer 8156
Customer 8157
Customer 8158
Customer 8159
Customer 8160
Customer 8161
Customer 8162
Customer 8163
Customer 8164
Customer 8165
Customer 8166
Customer 8167
Customer 8168
Customer 8169
Customer 8170
Customer 8171
Customer 8172
Customer 8173
Customer 8174
Customer 8175
Customer 8176
Customer 8177
Customer 8178
Customer 8179
Customer 8180
Customer 8181
Customer 8182
Customer 8183
Customer 8184
Customer 8185
Customer 8186
Customer 8187
Customer 8188
Customer 8189
Customer 8190
Customer 8191
Customer 8192
Customer 8193
Customer 8194
Customer 8195
Customer 8196
Customer 8197
Customer 8198
Customer 8199
Customer 8200

Restitution
Amount

$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$

10.70
214.30
191.40
1,223.55
132.56
851.75
77.62
511.05
134.02
1,049.49
697.37
543.92
479.15
178.67
45.90
1,336.20
619.67
463.50
125.92
451.16
1,130.50
477.60
156.87
96.22
14.81
192.00
145.62
55.43
452.53
1,098.00
15.52
340.70
61.35
72.30
113.85
98.35
336.64
566.87
15.71
152.00
64.71
357.60
16.27
81.55
44.34
19.19
388.39
162.55
46.96
930.00

Customer
Customer 8201
Customer 8202
Customer 8203
Customer 8204
Customer 8205
Customer 8206
Customer 8207
Customer 8208
Customer 8209
Customer 8210
Customer 8211
Customer 8212
Customer 8213
Customer 8214
Customer 8215
Customer 8216
Customer 8217
Customer 8218
Customer 8219
Customer 8220
Customer 8221
Customer 8222
Customer 8223
Customer 8224
Customer 8225
Customer 8226
Customer 8227
Customer 8228
Customer 8229
Customer 8230
Customer 8231
Customer 8232
Customer 8233
Customer 8234
Customer 8235
Customer 8236
Customer 8237
Customer 8238
Customer 8239
Customer 8240
Customer 8241
Customer 8242
Customer 8243
Customer 8244
Customer 8245
Customer 8246
Customer 8247
Customer 8248
Customer 8249
Customer 8250

Restitution
Amount

$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$

359.96
1,118.00
16.57
616.71
4,962.68
132.70
2,035.97
391.09
115.44
295.59
17.57
45.81
11.20
46.68
215.70
80.10
45.96
129.42
23.48
24.04
408.58
106.10
144.36
190.00
430.43
960.48
105.70
2,521.18
3,868.95
130.50
91.89
76.27
317.40
226.28
83.05
89.79
135.62
28.71
774.50
31.38
101.47
1,119.99
30.12
43.14
550.55
20.24
996.40
35.20
169.08
1,053.16

Attachment A
Customer
Customer 8251
Customer 8252
Customer 8253
Customer 8254
Customer 8255
Customer 8256
Customer 8257
Customer 8258
Customer 8259
Customer 8260
Customer 8261
Customer 8262
Customer 8263
Customer 8264
Customer 8265
Customer 8266
Customer 8267
Customer 8268
Customer 8269
Customer 8270
Customer 8271
Customer 8272
Customer 8273
Customer 8274
Customer 8275
Customer 8276
Customer 8277
Customer 8278
Customer 8279
Customer 8280
Customer 8281
Customer 8282
Customer 8283
Customer 8284
Customer 8285
Customer 8286
Customer 8287
Customer 8288
Customer 8289
Customer 8290
Customer 8291
Customer 8292
Customer 8293
Customer 8294
Customer 8295
Customer 8296
Customer 8297
Customer 8298
Customer 8299
Customer 8300

Restitution
Amount

$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$

163.10
431.40
257.12
22.70
1,147.25
14.34
394.08
948.00
19.71
215.70
206.14
339.40
64.71
2,366.24
278.48
310.83
4,357.69
192.39
22.15
172.90
407.40
43.14
88.41
2,522.64
64.71
454.90
39.03
455.50
105.48
1,509.90
26.28
275.06
198.30
166.41
65.24
43.14
21.24
88.80
104.14
50.60
28.78
504.87
141.79
670.95
445.21
215.70
511.76
53.46
13.42
12.79

Customer
Customer 8301
Customer 8302
Customer 8303
Customer 8304
Customer 8305
Customer 8306
Customer 8307
Customer 8308
Customer 8309
Customer 8310
Customer 8311
Customer 8312
Customer 8313
Customer 8314
Customer 8315
Customer 8316
Customer 8317
Customer 8318
Customer 8319
Customer 8320
Customer 8321
Customer 8322
Customer 8323
Customer 8324
Customer 8325
Customer 8326
Customer 8327
Customer 8328
Customer 8329
Customer 8330
Customer 8331
Customer 8332
Customer 8333
Customer 8334
Customer 8335
Customer 8336
Customer 8337
Customer 8338
Customer 8339
Customer 8340
Customer 8341
Customer 8342
Customer 8343
Customer 8344
Customer 8345
Customer 8346
Customer 8347
Customer 8348
Customer 8349
Customer 8350

Restitution
Amount

$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$

123.91
73.16
81.55
59.20
74.30
78.28
207.11
1,550.00
596.37
218.25
2,162.61
180.81
232.10
134.40
171.87
96.44
737.10
2,612.01
641.75
185.70
3,207.10
738.75
546.05
78.41
253.37
172.60
114.73
240.00
672.03
1,509.90
21.57
195.09
143.06
16.21
52.56
64.71
21.86
37.86
18.20
63.74
86.28
1,231.30
185.13
863.32
226.25
780.30
211.60
65.70
739.67
131.37

Customer
Customer 8351
Customer 8352
Customer 8353
Customer 8354
Customer 8355
Customer 8356
Customer 8357
Customer 8358
Customer 8359
Customer 8360
Customer 8361
Customer 8362
Customer 8363
Customer 8364
Customer 8365
Customer 8366
Customer 8367
Customer 8368
Customer 8369
Customer 8370
Customer 8371
Customer 8372
Customer 8373
Customer 8374
Customer 8375
Customer 8376
Customer 8377
Customer 8378
Customer 8379
Customer 8380
Customer 8381
Customer 8382
Customer 8383
Customer 8384
Customer 8385
Customer 8386
Customer 8387
Customer 8388
Customer 8389
Customer 8390
Customer 8391
Customer 8392
Customer 8393
Customer 8394
Customer 8395
Customer 8396
Customer 8397
Customer 8398
Customer 8399
Customer 8400

Restitution
Amount

$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$

109.90
44.72
245.14
247.43
44.79
102.85
35.23
64.71
64.85
117.77
69.00
162.85
16.44
85.83
38.10
25.27
128.50
229.04
172.03
253.23
35.46
605.12
427.77
192.60
33.18
10.20
323.79
56.48
1,317.52
721.81
101.87
64.34
869.68
71.32
952.19
64.35
612.50
39.08
10.50
31.36
121.50
15.90
13.72
134.51
69.05
153.00
11.06
942.35
369.18
197.71

Attachment A
Customer
Customer 8401
Customer 8402
Customer 8403
Customer 8404
Customer 8405
Customer 8406
Customer 8407
Customer 8408
Customer 8409
Customer 8410
Customer 8411
Customer 8412
Customer 8413
Customer 8414
Customer 8415
Customer 8416
Customer 8417
Customer 8418
Customer 8419
Customer 8420
Customer 8421
Customer 8422
Customer 8423
Customer 8424
Customer 8425
Customer 8426
Customer 8427
Customer 8428
Customer 8429
Customer 8430
Customer 8431
Customer 8432
Customer 8433
Customer 8434
Customer 8435
Customer 8436
Customer 8437
Customer 8438
Customer 8439
Customer 8440
Customer 8441
Customer 8442
Customer 8443
Customer 8444
Customer 8445
Customer 8446
Customer 8447
Customer 8448
Customer 8449
Customer 8450

Restitution
Amount

$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$

21.07
203.73
118.25
95.47
12.07
23.03
79.46
73.17
607.17
10.86
26.08
32.71
306.36
1,269.80
10.35
399.62
401.70
1,581.68
27.23
132.05
244.05
251.15
558.00
5,324.00
11.30
312.48
16.20
20.50
19.86
11.60
17.80
41.07
148.50
49.80
102.00
206.05
14.61
25.48
12.02
59.42
57.63
665.85
171.57
24.60
60.40
13.88
302.70
71.45
145.77
2,119.50

Customer
Customer 8451
Customer 8452
Customer 8453
Customer 8454
Customer 8455
Customer 8456
Customer 8457
Customer 8458
Customer 8459
Customer 8460
Customer 8461
Customer 8462
Customer 8463
Customer 8464
Customer 8465
Customer 8466
Customer 8467
Customer 8468
Customer 8469
Customer 8470
Customer 8471
Customer 8472
Customer 8473
Customer 8474
Customer 8475
Customer 8476
Customer 8477
Customer 8478
Customer 8479
Customer 8480
Customer 8481
Customer 8482
Customer 8483
Customer 8484
Customer 8485
Customer 8486
Customer 8487
Customer 8488
Customer 8489
Customer 8490
Customer 8491
Customer 8492
Customer 8493
Customer 8494
Customer 8495
Customer 8496
Customer 8497
Customer 8498
Customer 8499
Customer 8500

Restitution
Amount

$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$

27.98
133.76
610.00
33.50
2,574.09
704.00
252.98
39.37
219.90
14.32
254.71
727.75
229.30
14.25
503.99
240.30
3,995.00
109.44
284.96
700.00
144.07
526.05
182.80
58.48
179.10
157.60
135.47
12.20
163.01
288.75
3,934.99
14.22
45.85
2,100.96
429.54
1,181.43
2,043.50
35.55
174.40
40.90
710.00
24.39
13.64
100.74
20.70
65.97
227.23
879.52
1,086.00
34.55

Customer
Customer 8501
Customer 8502
Customer 8503
Customer 8504
Customer 8505
Customer 8506
Customer 8507
Customer 8508
Customer 8509
Customer 8510
Customer 8511
Customer 8512
Customer 8513
Customer 8514
Customer 8515
Customer 8516
Customer 8517
Customer 8518
Customer 8519
Customer 8520
Customer 8521
Customer 8522
Customer 8523
Customer 8524
Customer 8525
Customer 8526
Customer 8527
Customer 8528
Customer 8529
Customer 8530
Customer 8531
Customer 8532
Customer 8533
Customer 8534
Customer 8535
Customer 8536
Customer 8537
Customer 8538
Customer 8539
Customer 8540
Customer 8541
Customer 8542
Customer 8543
Customer 8544
Customer 8545
Customer 8546
Customer 8547
Customer 8548
Customer 8549
Customer 8550

Restitution
Amount

$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$

12.66
105.00
78.45
872.99
72.90
2,062.04
87.34
50.96
80.36
71.50
412.50
344.28
35.55
137.78
57.30
801.00
55.84
21.33
10,304.04
278.85
2,174.39
42.35
265.49
22.71
587.30
41.52
81.50
74.93
1,822.00
35.40
505.25
35.90
109.61
65.02
1,148.23
1,065.27
22.44
291.65
106.05
22.74
165.00
21.09
288.75
82.50
211.50
58.87
2,366.00
337.04
69.10
13.90

Attachment A
Customer
Customer 8551
Customer 8552
Customer 8553
Customer 8554
Customer 8555
Customer 8556
Customer 8557
Customer 8558
Customer 8559
Customer 8560
Customer 8561
Customer 8562
Customer 8563
Customer 8564
Customer 8565
Customer 8566
Customer 8567
Customer 8568
Customer 8569
Customer 8570
Customer 8571
Customer 8572
Customer 8573
Customer 8574
Customer 8575
Customer 8576
Customer 8577
Customer 8578
Customer 8579
Customer 8580
Customer 8581
Customer 8582
Customer 8583
Customer 8584
Customer 8585
Customer 8586
Customer 8587
Customer 8588
Customer 8589
Customer 8590
Customer 8591
Customer 8592
Customer 8593
Customer 8594
Customer 8595
Customer 8596
Customer 8597
Customer 8598
Customer 8599
Customer 8600

Restitution
Amount

$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$

1,187.53
14.99
28.75
802.57
757.00
477.80
398.56
225.61
1,748.21
720.05
74.57
468.02
256.95
72.22
441.63
88.51
610.23
19.53
68.70
13.03
215.25
157.97
515.99
198.19
341.91
81.50
37.11
27.04
29.12
29.40
14.14
44.20
31.53
29.84
81.90
16.87
94.28
17.68
34.32
20.38
92.52
11.55
30.84
14.11
47.97
27.76
33.35
12.94
61.68
192.26

Customer
Customer 8601
Customer 8602
Customer 8603
Customer 8604
Customer 8605
Customer 8606
Customer 8607
Customer 8608
Customer 8609
Customer 8610
Customer 8611
Customer 8612
Customer 8613
Customer 8614
Customer 8615
Customer 8616
Customer 8617
Customer 8618
Customer 8619
Customer 8620
Customer 8621
Customer 8622
Customer 8623
Customer 8624
Customer 8625
Customer 8626
Customer 8627
Customer 8628
Customer 8629
Customer 8630
Customer 8631
Customer 8632
Customer 8633
Customer 8634
Customer 8635
Customer 8636
Customer 8637
Customer 8638
Customer 8639
Customer 8640
Customer 8641
Customer 8642
Customer 8643
Customer 8644
Customer 8645
Customer 8646
Customer 8647
Customer 8648
Customer 8649
Customer 8650

Restitution
Amount

$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$

75.40
38.35
15.29
142.60
11.47
85.02
40.98
160.70
15.01
842.37
26.50
23.04
150.09
16.41
65.88
76.75
261.98
661.50
101.39
593.62
18.52
1,472.96
882.00
471.51
2,732.20
4,511.52
143.25
1,148.21
3,060.39
645.05
416.00
312.00
109.99
58.50
15.08
18,309.77
116.94
75.75
302.22
280.70
60.80
198.82
41.91
123.85
419.11
1,733.34
108.41
266.67
47.70
40.70

Customer
Customer 8651
Customer 8652
Customer 8653
Customer 8654
Customer 8655
Customer 8656
Customer 8657
Customer 8658
Customer 8659
Customer 8660
Customer 8661
Customer 8662
Customer 8663
Customer 8664
Customer 8665
Customer 8666
Customer 8667
Customer 8668
Customer 8669
Customer 8670
Customer 8671
Customer 8672
Customer 8673
Customer 8674
Customer 8675
Customer 8676
Customer 8677
Customer 8678
Customer 8679
Customer 8680
Customer 8681
Customer 8682
Customer 8683
Customer 8684
Customer 8685
Customer 8686
Customer 8687
Customer 8688
Customer 8689
Customer 8690
Customer 8691
Customer 8692
Customer 8693
Customer 8694
Customer 8695
Customer 8696
Customer 8697
Customer 8698
Customer 8699
Customer 8700

Restitution
Amount

$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$

11.77
71.02
23.62
1,214.85
47.31
153.30
158.50
96.29
157.60
331.11
67.00
12.75
150.66
1,543.10
976.24
241.73
145.40
119.00
438.00
14.56
79.91
235.00
2,053.53
220.68
42.80
313.91
490.31
11,396.88
182.00
33.27
93.42
294.05
28.16
31.35
903.49
20.25
168.40
150.89
45.50
88.85
93.60
94.99
47.40
493.84
114.89
12.89
97.33
340.92
75.21
18.37

Attachment A
Customer
Customer 8701
Customer 8702
Customer 8703
Customer 8704
Customer 8705
Customer 8706
Customer 8707
Customer 8708
Customer 8709
Customer 8710
Customer 8711
Customer 8712
Customer 8713
Customer 8714
Customer 8715
Customer 8716
Customer 8717
Customer 8718
Customer 8719
Customer 8720
Customer 8721
Customer 8722
Customer 8723
Customer 8724
Customer 8725
Customer 8726
Customer 8727
Customer 8728
Customer 8729
Customer 8730
Customer 8731
Customer 8732
Customer 8733
Customer 8734
Customer 8735
Customer 8736
Customer 8737
Customer 8738
Customer 8739
Customer 8740
Customer 8741
Customer 8742
Customer 8743
Customer 8744
Customer 8745
Customer 8746
Customer 8747
Customer 8748
Customer 8749
Customer 8750

Restitution
Amount

$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$

19.56
28.76
367.59
57.84
19.51
75.44
39.88
17.05
59.59
1,116.30
74.23
87.90
234.89
37.00
35.30
20.60
95.13
12.85
11.76
322.00
134.30
72.87
106.25
58.54
311.51
317.85
19.88
66.40
15.06
11.34
45.79
77.51
70.95
498.00
10.15
80.94
37.34
305.42
28.80
1,392.80
522.00
122.49
226.36
45.43
38.32
15.80
125.75
141.81
42.35
73.13

Customer
Customer 8751
Customer 8752
Customer 8753
Customer 8754
Customer 8755
Customer 8756
Customer 8757
Customer 8758
Customer 8759
Customer 8760
Customer 8761
Customer 8762
Customer 8763
Customer 8764
Customer 8765
Customer 8766
Customer 8767
Customer 8768
Customer 8769
Customer 8770
Customer 8771
Customer 8772
Customer 8773
Customer 8774
Customer 8775
Customer 8776
Customer 8777
Customer 8778
Customer 8779
Customer 8780
Customer 8781
Customer 8782
Customer 8783
Customer 8784
Customer 8785
Customer 8786
Customer 8787
Customer 8788
Customer 8789
Customer 8790
Customer 8791
Customer 8792
Customer 8793
Customer 8794
Customer 8795
Customer 8796
Customer 8797
Customer 8798
Customer 8799
Customer 8800

Restitution
Amount

$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$

259.25
22.46
28.46
131.70
309.00
74.10
46.58
177.00
120.67
42.57
18.40
37.50
532.72
16.37
190.77
1,800.00
69.95
45.10
13.13
11.76
301.63
84.23
36.75
76.99
12.28
35.18
14.92
14.97
88.40
145.63
2,133.00
26.86
596.11
27.60
83.16
23.92
21.78
10.25
11.21
46.50
24.50
21.00
43.69
44.41
20.75
14.98
390.49
38.20
115.34
207.71

Customer
Customer 8801
Customer 8802
Customer 8803
Customer 8804
Customer 8805
Customer 8806
Customer 8807
Customer 8808
Customer 8809
Customer 8810
Customer 8811
Customer 8812
Customer 8813
Customer 8814
Customer 8815
Customer 8816
Customer 8817
Customer 8818
Customer 8819
Customer 8820
Customer 8821
Customer 8822
Customer 8823
Customer 8824
Customer 8825
Customer 8826
Customer 8827
Customer 8828
Customer 8829
Customer 8830
Customer 8831
Customer 8832
Customer 8833
Customer 8834
Customer 8835
Customer 8836
Customer 8837
Customer 8838
Customer 8839
Customer 8840
Customer 8841
Customer 8842
Customer 8843
Customer 8844
Customer 8845
Customer 8846
Customer 8847
Customer 8848
Customer 8849
Customer 8850

Restitution
Amount

$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$

25.00
60.48
58.35
64.71
10.90
67.05
26.92
3,035.63
70.49
118.92
23.69
2,006.00
89.81
82.31
16.60
59.60
52.33
35.42
94.42
36.00
103.00
75.43
505.18
23.69
29.20
12.84
364.80
14.90
647.00
156.03
678.35
14.34
113.40
61.59
23.38
14.83
25.78
27.66
20.60
162.68
60.52
24.63
11.15
15.29
27.94
59.25
4,217.80
49.40
190.61
13.97

Attachment A
Customer
Customer 8851
Customer 8852
Customer 8853
Customer 8854
Customer 8855
Customer 8856
Customer 8857
Customer 8858
Customer 8859
Customer 8860
Customer 8861
Customer 8862
Customer 8863
Customer 8864
Customer 8865
Customer 8866
Customer 8867
Customer 8868
Customer 8869
Customer 8870
Customer 8871
Customer 8872
Customer 8873
Customer 8874
Customer 8875
Customer 8876
Customer 8877
Customer 8878
Customer 8879
Customer 8880
Customer 8881
Customer 8882
Customer 8883
Customer 8884
Customer 8885
Customer 8886
Customer 8887
Customer 8888
Customer 8889
Customer 8890
Customer 8891
Customer 8892
Customer 8893
Customer 8894
Customer 8895
Customer 8896
Customer 8897
Customer 8898
Customer 8899
Customer 8900

Restitution
Amount

$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$

442.09
10.75
29.08
118.63
1,088.90
15.40
50.31
17.45
22.79
18.46
46.09
50.19
90.00
20.36
66.20
403.39
68.00
248.94
130.03
16.44
20.99
128.53
3,853.12
11.31
104.92
68.00
222.58
105.30
83.73
2,874.89
24.65
242.16
737.79
310.93
284.80
25.52
255.80
182.85
17.92
264.08
23.33
12.15
63.92
163.48
96.62
52.97
96.39
14.84
12.67
930.23

Customer
Customer 8901
Customer 8902
Customer 8903
Customer 8904
Customer 8905
Customer 8906
Customer 8907
Customer 8908
Customer 8909
Customer 8910
Customer 8911
Customer 8912
Customer 8913
Customer 8914
Customer 8915
Customer 8916
Customer 8917
Customer 8918
Customer 8919
Customer 8920
Customer 8921
Customer 8922
Customer 8923
Customer 8924
Customer 8925
Customer 8926
Customer 8927
Customer 8928
Customer 8929
Customer 8930
Customer 8931
Customer 8932
Customer 8933
Customer 8934
Customer 8935
Customer 8936
Customer 8937
Customer 8938
Customer 8939
Customer 8940
Customer 8941
Customer 8942
Customer 8943
Customer 8944
Customer 8945
Customer 8946
Customer 8947
Customer 8948
Customer 8949
Customer 8950

Restitution
Amount

$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$

4,550.92
330.71
123.91
258.95
68.00
25.22
305.26
915.81
23.85
491.50
40.70
37.52
12.56
26.88
153.78
18.60
16.73
22.72
39.84
26.39
11.26
82.29
13.00
26.31
167.98
116.46
44.08
23.46
105.83
265.37
120.62
48.43
53.44
13.03
16.06
81.04
14.75
10.82
13.70
24.58
29.11
111.54
25.93
134.21
15.29
54.62
78.54
25.65
118.39
302.40

Customer
Customer 8951
Customer 8952
Customer 8953
Customer 8954
Customer 8955
Customer 8956
Customer 8957
Customer 8958
Customer 8959
Customer 8960
Customer 8961
Customer 8962
Customer 8963
Customer 8964
Customer 8965
Customer 8966
Customer 8967
Customer 8968
Customer 8969
Customer 8970
Customer 8971
Customer 8972
Customer 8973
Customer 8974
Customer 8975
Customer 8976
Customer 8977
Customer 8978
Customer 8979
Customer 8980
Customer 8981
Customer 8982
Customer 8983
Customer 8984
Customer 8985
Customer 8986
Customer 8987
Customer 8988
Customer 8989
Customer 8990
Customer 8991
Customer 8992
Customer 8993
Customer 8994
Customer 8995
Customer 8996
Customer 8997
Customer 8998
Customer 8999
Customer 9000

Restitution
Amount

$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$

303.43
185.03
93.66
52.61
43.79
30.99
24.30
81.50
17.85
215.00
28.99
16.34
52.64
26.34
80.81
262.30
64.20
184.50
1,235.00
64.40
78.00
214.06
82.48
178.62
487.08
19.80
212.60
139.20
391.88
836.50
28.29
157.05
49.61
69.76
204.64
38.43
95.94
80.27
11.74
728.50
144.00
92.99
419.16
982.06
168.64
36.20
18.28
60.65
113.85
1,120.46

Attachment A
Customer
Customer 9001
Customer 9002
Customer 9003
Customer 9004
Customer 9005
Customer 9006
Customer 9007
Customer 9008
Customer 9009
Customer 9010
Customer 9011
Customer 9012
Customer 9013
Customer 9014
Customer 9015
Customer 9016
Customer 9017
Customer 9018
Customer 9019
Customer 9020
Customer 9021
Customer 9022
Customer 9023
Customer 9024
Customer 9025
Customer 9026
Customer 9027
Customer 9028
Customer 9029
Customer 9030
Customer 9031
Customer 9032
Customer 9033
Customer 9034
Customer 9035
Customer 9036
Customer 9037
Customer 9038
Customer 9039
Customer 9040
Customer 9041
Customer 9042
Customer 9043
Customer 9044
Customer 9045
Customer 9046
Customer 9047
Customer 9048
Customer 9049
Customer 9050

Restitution
Amount

$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$

162.21
94.86
40.39
1,347.53
30.27
43.20
280.75
39.65
56,591.48
177.38
240.15
291.06
1,133.31
1,761.69
20.17
1,133.60
106.64
99.00
1,200.63
26.77
404.18
501.69
43.25
35.47
5,494.54
392.46
783.87
508.86
19.11
660.50
643.29
862.30
12.30
154.00
33.60
424.96
117.75
69.60
293.35
96.71
101.36
369.45
57.93
264.89
17.01
350.98
15.26
179.90
10.33
262.23

Customer
Customer 9051
Customer 9052
Customer 9053
Customer 9054
Customer 9055
Customer 9056
Customer 9057
Customer 9058
Customer 9059
Customer 9060
Customer 9061
Customer 9062
Customer 9063
Customer 9064
Customer 9065
Customer 9066
Customer 9067
Customer 9068
Customer 9069
Customer 9070
Customer 9071
Customer 9072
Customer 9073
Customer 9074
Customer 9075
Customer 9076
Customer 9077
Customer 9078
Customer 9079
Customer 9080
Customer 9081
Customer 9082
Customer 9083
Customer 9084
Customer 9085
Customer 9086
Customer 9087
Customer 9088
Customer 9089
Customer 9090
Customer 9091
Customer 9092
Customer 9093
Customer 9094
Customer 9095
Customer 9096
Customer 9097
Customer 9098
Customer 9099
Customer 9100

Restitution
Amount

$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$

134.36
55.46
207.97
302.82
42.00
43.50
11.61
22.48
31.08
10.50
95.00
35.40
38.85
812.38
14.47
16.16
17.19
11.65
43.70
902.86
245.11
28.36
13.43
114.32
79.62
12.21
152.69
140.16
124.20
25.80
119.11
17.13
247.95
49.56
10.72
28.91
24.53
258.08
17.35
127.15
21.25
258.55
47.70
131.50
18.96
208.29
16.91
75.25
695.00
115.00

Customer
Customer 9101
Customer 9102
Customer 9103
Customer 9104
Customer 9105
Customer 9106
Customer 9107
Customer 9108
Customer 9109
Customer 9110
Customer 9111
Customer 9112
Customer 9113
Customer 9114
Customer 9115
Customer 9116
Customer 9117
Customer 9118
Customer 9119
Customer 9120
Customer 9121
Customer 9122
Customer 9123
Customer 9124
Customer 9125
Customer 9126
Customer 9127
Customer 9128
Customer 9129
Customer 9130
Customer 9131
Customer 9132
Customer 9133
Customer 9134
Customer 9135
Customer 9136
Customer 9137
Customer 9138
Customer 9139
Customer 9140
Customer 9141
Customer 9142
Customer 9143
Customer 9144
Customer 9145
Customer 9146
Customer 9147
Customer 9148
Customer 9149
Customer 9150

Restitution
Amount

$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$

21.79
224.81
37.31
147.49
20.80
71.48
85.91
3,427.62
104.18
3,115.87
117.97
518.00
280.21
27.00
44.85
79.31
83.01
33.25
37.20
99.84
56.25
495.00
43.29
10.72
40.47
119.52
216.92
18.13
16.78
478.92
90.00
136.41
20.38
15.12
52.19
112.32
36.21
193.61
39.63
30.00
111.48
14.39
23.70
85.54
1,535.31
49.00
11.94
125.12
10.67
139.50

Attachment A
Customer
Customer 9151
Customer 9152
Customer 9153
Customer 9154
Customer 9155
Customer 9156
Customer 9157
Customer 9158
Customer 9159
Customer 9160
Customer 9161
Customer 9162
Customer 9163
Customer 9164
Customer 9165
Customer 9166
Customer 9167
Customer 9168
Customer 9169
Customer 9170
Customer 9171
Customer 9172
Customer 9173
Customer 9174
Customer 9175
Customer 9176
Customer 9177
Customer 9178
Customer 9179
Customer 9180
Customer 9181
Customer 9182
Customer 9183
Customer 9184
Customer 9185
Customer 9186
Customer 9187
Customer 9188
Customer 9189
Customer 9190
Customer 9191
Customer 9192
Customer 9193
Customer 9194
Customer 9195
Customer 9196
Customer 9197
Customer 9198
Customer 9199
Customer 9200

Restitution
Amount

$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$

27.75
123.49
13.99
29.24
21.00
92.50
120.44
20.60
145.14
20.55
54.00
235.20
14.55
42.18
16.95
884.81
22,729.51
37.73
103.19
119.88
13.04
27.08
56.45
421.07
209.70
10.20
17.17
433.35
156.87
948.30
13.04
546.15
24.67
63.72
34.33
11.48
89.40
40.86
30.72
11.57
32.35
53.99
15.46
62.58
104.00
90.36
1,064.25
116.92
5,878.01
54.92

Customer
Customer 9201
Customer 9202
Customer 9203
Customer 9204
Customer 9205
Customer 9206
Customer 9207
Customer 9208
Customer 9209
Customer 9210
Customer 9211
Customer 9212
Customer 9213
Customer 9214
Customer 9215
Customer 9216
Customer 9217
Customer 9218
Customer 9219
Customer 9220
Customer 9221
Customer 9222
Customer 9223
Customer 9224
Customer 9225
Customer 9226
Customer 9227
Customer 9228
Customer 9229
Customer 9230
Customer 9231
Customer 9232
Customer 9233
Customer 9234
Customer 9235
Customer 9236
Customer 9237
Customer 9238
Customer 9239
Customer 9240
Customer 9241
Customer 9242
Customer 9243
Customer 9244
Customer 9245
Customer 9246
Customer 9247
Customer 9248
Customer 9249
Customer 9250

Restitution
Amount

$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$

529.28
110.00
128.14
24.48
30.33
266.44
16.70
183.60
87.51
17.80
30.73
90.18
15.23
535.42
285.66
100.57
198.25
85.90
12.28
369.82
75.73
17.80
47.76
86.56
13.77
29.31
33.66
34.26
19.47
39.46
15.38
23.50
48.60
245.45
460.18
268.85
20.38
237.25
27.56
10.74
28.79
89.58
18.11
180.14
83.47
20.59
280.31
35.56
149.99
1,368.96

Customer
Customer 9251
Customer 9252
Customer 9253
Customer 9254
Customer 9255
Customer 9256
Customer 9257
Customer 9258
Customer 9259
Customer 9260
Customer 9261
Customer 9262
Customer 9263
Customer 9264
Customer 9265
Customer 9266
Customer 9267
Customer 9268
Customer 9269
Customer 9270
Customer 9271
Customer 9272
Customer 9273
Customer 9274
Customer 9275
Customer 9276
Customer 9277
Customer 9278
Customer 9279
Customer 9280
Customer 9281
Customer 9282
Customer 9283
Customer 9284
Customer 9285
Customer 9286
Customer 9287
Customer 9288
Customer 9289
Customer 9290
Customer 9291
Customer 9292
Customer 9293
Customer 9294
Customer 9295
Customer 9296
Customer 9297
Customer 9298
Customer 9299
Customer 9300

Restitution
Amount

$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$

160.24
34.68
11.48
19.00
10.02
49.08
37.64
38.29
39.93
83.96
17.13
16.26
32.96
21.38
68.37
45.20
187.00
47.12
189.72
32.20
99.84
12.14
58.44
18.23
24.23
87.75
476.00
63.00
32.43
648.05
17.68
254.32
40.00
41.33
61.50
22.49
121.46
28.08
214.92
33.14
734.06
30.13
611.31
125.81
22.09
179.48
80.18
49.20
30.42
119.94

Attachment A
Customer
Customer 9301
Customer 9302
Customer 9303
Customer 9304
Customer 9305
Customer 9306
Customer 9307
Customer 9308
Customer 9309
Customer 9310
Customer 9311
Customer 9312
Customer 9313
Customer 9314
Customer 9315
Customer 9316
Customer 9317
Customer 9318
Customer 9319
Customer 9320
Customer 9321
Customer 9322
Customer 9323
Customer 9324
Customer 9325
Customer 9326
Customer 9327
Customer 9328
Customer 9329
Customer 9330
Customer 9331
Customer 9332
Customer 9333
Customer 9334
Customer 9335
Customer 9336
Customer 9337
Customer 9338
Customer 9339
Customer 9340
Customer 9341
Customer 9342
Customer 9343
Customer 9344
Customer 9345
Customer 9346
Customer 9347
Customer 9348
Customer 9349
Customer 9350

Restitution
Amount

$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$

331.89
65.23
77.07
19.98
194.01
17.85
187.50
34.56
14.26
32.16
49.44
16.60
882.26
94.32
26.75
477.02
13.15
24.80
61.69
56.53
10.22
57.32
1,789.00
18.27
109.85
105.86
16.90
11.88
59.82
41.81
168.70
10.74
23.14
114.24
93.15
22.42
11.40
48.26
29.55
78.90
510.00
261.72
113.45
27.62
185.44
68.14
83.00
139.70
23.50
11.25

Customer
Customer 9351
Customer 9352
Customer 9353
Customer 9354
Customer 9355
Customer 9356
Customer 9357
Customer 9358
Customer 9359
Customer 9360
Customer 9361
Customer 9362
Customer 9363
Customer 9364
Customer 9365
Customer 9366
Customer 9367
Customer 9368
Customer 9369
Customer 9370
Customer 9371
Customer 9372
Customer 9373
Customer 9374
Customer 9375
Customer 9376
Customer 9377
Customer 9378
Customer 9379
Customer 9380
Customer 9381
Customer 9382
Customer 9383
Customer 9384
Customer 9385
Customer 9386
Customer 9387
Customer 9388
Customer 9389
Customer 9390
Customer 9391
Customer 9392
Customer 9393
Customer 9394
Customer 9395
Customer 9396
Customer 9397
Customer 9398
Customer 9399
Customer 9400

Restitution
Amount

$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$

11.00
10.46
56.00
89.28
27.98
159.52
50.89
475.66
37.48
52.52
14.96
30.87
37.11
190.69
13.36
14.64
140.17
555.89
37.96
20.36
15.15
15.06
71.42
41.40
15.25
13.77
168.94
138.95
30.99
49.09
92.47
26.20
30.04
59.75
31.00
898.18
30.50
18.77
10.39
31.35
241.50
12.50
12.25
56.50
46.25
175.51
194.00
10.88
70.50
54.73

Customer
Customer 9401
Customer 9402
Customer 9403
Customer 9404
Customer 9405
Customer 9406
Customer 9407
Customer 9408
Customer 9409
Customer 9410
Customer 9411
Customer 9412
Customer 9413
Customer 9414
Customer 9415
Customer 9416
Customer 9417
Customer 9418
Customer 9419
Customer 9420
Customer 9421
Customer 9422
Customer 9423
Customer 9424
Customer 9425
Customer 9426
Customer 9427
Customer 9428
Customer 9429
Customer 9430
Customer 9431
Customer 9432
Customer 9433
Customer 9434
Customer 9435
Customer 9436
Customer 9437
Customer 9438
Customer 9439
Customer 9440
Customer 9441
Customer 9442
Customer 9443
Customer 9444
Customer 9445
Customer 9446
Customer 9447
Customer 9448
Customer 9449
Customer 9450

Restitution
Amount

$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$

12.00
37.24
15.00
65.21
31.41
85.00
1,647.67
2,846.20
77.76
16.09
18.74
17.25
11.16
51.92
291.34
43.75
142.41
2,395.48
34.24
13.39
13.32
94.65
23.66
256.47
129.14
30.00
181.95
102.00
275.05
12.00
34.51
47.80
20.39
2,351.53
2,059.00
168.53
12.33
65.00
53.46
23.88
720.29
3,828.90
242.92
155.01
142.08
14.60
1,328.57
141.78
59.67
1,895.77

Attachment A
Customer
Customer 9451
Customer 9452
Customer 9453
Customer 9454
Customer 9455
Customer 9456
Customer 9457
Customer 9458
Customer 9459
Customer 9460
Customer 9461
Customer 9462
Customer 9463
Customer 9464
Customer 9465
Customer 9466
Customer 9467
Customer 9468
Customer 9469
Customer 9470
Customer 9471
Customer 9472
Customer 9473
Customer 9474
Customer 9475
Customer 9476
Customer 9477
Customer 9478
Customer 9479
Customer 9480
Customer 9481
Customer 9482
Customer 9483
Customer 9484
Customer 9485
Customer 9486
Customer 9487
Customer 9488
Customer 9489
Customer 9490
Customer 9491
Customer 9492
Customer 9493
Customer 9494
Customer 9495
Customer 9496
Customer 9497
Customer 9498
Customer 9499
Customer 9500

Restitution
Amount

$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$

723.90
19.79
264.69
13.04
19.56
35.84
13.54
538.99
1,125.51
187.10
72.11
171.44
31.42
1,300.78
285.76
17.34
206.39
161.98
2,325.52
19.32
300.30
218.71
13.60
212.01
218.70
108.14
139.05
33.91
108.84
12.00
2,712.00
42.51
12.69
10.00
77.76
23.89
3,059.87
18.98
28.14
56.21
45.86
146.50
148.45
453.10
53.67
42.14
421.50
437.00
12.29
20.60

Customer
Customer 9501
Customer 9502
Customer 9503
Customer 9504
Customer 9505
Customer 9506
Customer 9507
Customer 9508
Customer 9509
Customer 9510
Customer 9511
Customer 9512
Customer 9513
Customer 9514
Customer 9515
Customer 9516
Customer 9517
Customer 9518
Customer 9519
Customer 9520
Customer 9521
Customer 9522
Customer 9523
Customer 9524
Customer 9525
Customer 9526
Customer 9527
Customer 9528
Customer 9529
Customer 9530
Customer 9531
Customer 9532
Customer 9533
Customer 9534
Customer 9535
Customer 9536
Customer 9537
Customer 9538
Customer 9539
Customer 9540
Customer 9541
Customer 9542
Customer 9543
Customer 9544
Customer 9545
Customer 9546
Customer 9547
Customer 9548
Customer 9549
Customer 9550

Restitution
Amount

$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$

50.74
20.34
90.26
184.89
16.06
17.60
63.11
5,431.28
102.00
145.85
52.17
30,938.46
613.89
26,121.94
102.46
16.65
355.56
522.71
614.43
160.70
904.51
95.40
2,543.42
1,448.65
15.12
82.26
123.63
153.65
44.40
11.03
77.35
446.84
24.90
231.31
26.00
20.95
11.88
60.73
5,733.45
44.46
129.00
13.28
236.34
52.20
28.22
26.02
1,347.99
58.00
120.20
14.58

Customer
Customer 9551
Customer 9552
Customer 9553
Customer 9554
Customer 9555
Customer 9556
Customer 9557
Customer 9558
Customer 9559
Customer 9560
Customer 9561
Customer 9562
Customer 9563
Customer 9564
Customer 9565
Customer 9566
Customer 9567
Customer 9568
Customer 9569
Customer 9570
Customer 9571
Customer 9572
Customer 9573
Customer 9574
Customer 9575
Customer 9576
Customer 9577
Customer 9578
Customer 9579
Customer 9580
Customer 9581
Customer 9582
Customer 9583
Customer 9584
Customer 9585
Customer 9586
Customer 9587
Customer 9588
Customer 9589
Customer 9590
Customer 9591
Customer 9592
Customer 9593
Customer 9594
Customer 9595
Customer 9596
Customer 9597
Customer 9598
Customer 9599
Customer 9600

Restitution
Amount

$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$

179.83
495.00
54.12
51.15
48.38
14.20
39.40
25.83
19.19
18.00
18.11
3,080.75
15.85
85.83
33.18
75.00
327.53
16.37
45.93
49.95
11.07
38.90
22.14
144.00
17.89
17.00
14.43
40.59
66.71
88.00
124.43
13.38
11.80
113.32
46.26
41.91
73.80
24.70
48.83
432.62
48.60
40.22
29.52
61.48
47.20
670.88
138.62
91.23
122.20
18.96

Attachment A
Customer
Customer 9601
Customer 9602
Customer 9603
Customer 9604
Customer 9605
Customer 9606
Customer 9607
Customer 9608
Customer 9609
Customer 9610
Customer 9611
Customer 9612
Customer 9613
Customer 9614
Customer 9615
Customer 9616
Customer 9617
Customer 9618
Customer 9619
Customer 9620
Customer 9621
Customer 9622
Customer 9623
Customer 9624
Customer 9625
Customer 9626
Customer 9627
Customer 9628
Customer 9629
Customer 9630
Customer 9631
Customer 9632
Customer 9633
Customer 9634
Customer 9635
Customer 9636
Customer 9637
Customer 9638
Customer 9639
Customer 9640
Customer 9641
Customer 9642
Customer 9643
Customer 9644
Customer 9645
Customer 9646
Customer 9647
Customer 9648
Customer 9649
Customer 9650

Restitution
Amount

$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$

35.85
1,314.69
28.41
92.25
14.00
30.12
33.40
14.41
39.63
21.14
11.35
316.36
41.00
12.27
28.64
17.13
132.65
132.67
25.14
97.98
74.27
68.95
70.92
549.00
12.87
22.50
10.59
184.86
15.77
10.00
740.00
154.80
44.40
20.88
42.00
23.22
30.47
344.05
36.54
113.23
20.56
119.00
18.90
1,332.00
37.00
53.01
30.06
131.50
82.85
49.56

Customer
Customer 9651
Customer 9652
Customer 9653
Customer 9654
Customer 9655
Customer 9656
Customer 9657
Customer 9658
Customer 9659
Customer 9660
Customer 9661
Customer 9662
Customer 9663
Customer 9664
Customer 9665
Customer 9666
Customer 9667
Customer 9668
Customer 9669
Customer 9670
Customer 9671
Customer 9672
Customer 9673
Customer 9674
Customer 9675
Customer 9676
Customer 9677
Customer 9678
Customer 9679
Customer 9680
Customer 9681
Customer 9682
Customer 9683
Customer 9684
Customer 9685
Customer 9686
Customer 9687
Customer 9688
Customer 9689
Customer 9690
Customer 9691
Customer 9692
Customer 9693
Customer 9694
Customer 9695
Customer 9696
Customer 9697
Customer 9698
Customer 9699
Customer 9700

Restitution
Amount

$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$

286.20
83.65
18.00
27.07
1,475.23
20.99
123.80
74.00
160.26
68.37
358.70
59.00
15.75
10.27
79.00
290.00
181.29
25.78
190.72
170.35
30.66
348.00
1,005.69
152.60
107.27
19.90
38.97
152.50
690.00
49.50
47.67
22.81
29.69
2,359.36
219.11
26.91
148.00
6,727.44
10.66
22.50
49.48
10.44
70.44
13.92
12.00
165.76
151.26
293.04
38.68
207.15

Customer
Customer 9701
Customer 9702
Customer 9703
Customer 9704
Customer 9705
Customer 9706
Customer 9707
Customer 9708
Customer 9709
Customer 9710
Customer 9711
Customer 9712
Customer 9713
Customer 9714
Customer 9715
Customer 9716
Customer 9717
Customer 9718
Customer 9719
Customer 9720
Customer 9721
Customer 9722
Customer 9723
Customer 9724
Customer 9725
Customer 9726
Customer 9727
Customer 9728
Customer 9729
Customer 9730
Customer 9731
Customer 9732
Customer 9733
Customer 9734
Customer 9735
Customer 9736
Customer 9737
Customer 9738
Customer 9739
Customer 9740
Customer 9741
Customer 9742
Customer 9743
Customer 9744
Customer 9745
Customer 9746
Customer 9747
Customer 9748
Customer 9749
Customer 9750

Restitution
Amount

$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$

126.43
5,524.03
22.33
61.11
86.70
86.25
78.81
51.65
81.13
102.02
36.27
289.50
128.40
96.00
16.43
170.00
188.85
167.30
35.00
48.08
31.61
13.72
26.91
106.73
13.74
427.10
127.50
205.31
51.35
57.52
1,889.98
18.22
51.80
1,867.54
804.51
64.69
78.44
11.62
41.40
19.05
25.38
24.22
14.10
29.66
859.85
10.18
12.96
24.20
90.20
21.90

Attachment A
Customer
Customer 9751
Customer 9752
Customer 9753
Customer 9754
Customer 9755
Customer 9756
Customer 9757
Customer 9758
Customer 9759
Customer 9760
Customer 9761
Customer 9762
Customer 9763
Customer 9764
Customer 9765
Customer 9766
Customer 9767
Customer 9768
Customer 9769
Customer 9770
Customer 9771
Customer 9772
Customer 9773
Customer 9774
Customer 9775
Customer 9776
Customer 9777
Customer 9778
Customer 9779
Customer 9780
Customer 9781
Customer 9782
Customer 9783
Customer 9784
Customer 9785
Customer 9786
Customer 9787
Customer 9788
Customer 9789
Customer 9790
Customer 9791
Customer 9792
Customer 9793
Customer 9794
Customer 9795
Customer 9796
Customer 9797
Customer 9798
Customer 9799
Customer 9800

Restitution
Amount

$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$

24.96
15.46
326.70
60.87
451.00
97.75
74.33
66.30
50.35
14.49
80.43
185.00
207.18
33.69
169.77
89.27
44.00
90.68
13.23
149.44
70.37
47.70
1,990.00
43.50
498.24
27.35
57.60
48.90
37.44
95.70
90.20
104.53
405.95
95.40
17,007.98
1,620.00
228.08
427.98
31.58
159.80
79.28
179.84
23.20
542.56
38.24
50.57
11.80
269.90
105.78
35.40

Customer
Customer 9801
Customer 9802
Customer 9803
Customer 9804
Customer 9805
Customer 9806
Customer 9807
Customer 9808
Customer 9809
Customer 9810
Customer 9811
Customer 9812
Customer 9813
Customer 9814
Customer 9815
Customer 9816
Customer 9817
Customer 9818
Customer 9819
Customer 9820
Customer 9821
Customer 9822
Customer 9823
Customer 9824
Customer 9825
Customer 9826
Customer 9827
Customer 9828
Customer 9829
Customer 9830
Customer 9831
Customer 9832
Customer 9833
Customer 9834
Customer 9835
Customer 9836
Customer 9837
Customer 9838
Customer 9839
Customer 9840
Customer 9841
Customer 9842
Customer 9843
Customer 9844
Customer 9845
Customer 9846
Customer 9847
Customer 9848
Customer 9849
Customer 9850

Restitution
Amount

$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$

20.58
58.48
268.47
39.00
16.45
30.20
638.86
747.79
757.78
18.26
130.80
1,178.30
53.50
371.00
13.80
18.32
27.40
301.05
75.19
126.60
24.89
204.84
15.60
16.85
62.50
15.03
107.58
21.83
174.75
163.00
78.86
60.22
58.08
55.63
82.55
277.83
146.95
87.60
272.02
19.80
125.11
100.00
42.16
17.70
10.93
1,487.96
110.09
1,298.15
135.88
27.73

Customer
Customer 9851
Customer 9852
Customer 9853
Customer 9854
Customer 9855
Customer 9856
Customer 9857
Customer 9858
Customer 9859
Customer 9860
Customer 9861
Customer 9862
Customer 9863
Customer 9864
Customer 9865
Customer 9866
Customer 9867
Customer 9868
Customer 9869
Customer 9870
Customer 9871
Customer 9872
Customer 9873
Customer 9874
Customer 9875
Customer 9876
Customer 9877
Customer 9878
Customer 9879
Customer 9880
Customer 9881
Customer 9882
Customer 9883
Customer 9884
Customer 9885
Customer 9886
Customer 9887
Customer 9888
Customer 9889
Customer 9890
Customer 9891
Customer 9892
Customer 9893
Customer 9894
Customer 9895
Customer 9896
Customer 9897
Customer 9898
Customer 9899
Customer 9900

Restitution
Amount

$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$

26.48
62.77
985.01
230.02
148.65
93.56
22.69
84.70
821.67
74.25
118.34
366.60
140.81
145.25
138.66
193.35
34.00
279.41
18.88
88.58
177.41
15.88
2,229.19
108.91
12.19
19.46
42.93
52.92
44.77
16.70
16.28
32.60
189.08
30.88
50.07
217.61
19.16
696.48
14.70
46.80
15.61
29.18
344.35
19.44
29.80
27.30
33.94
48.00
12.46
98.53

Attachment A
Customer
Customer 9901
Customer 9902
Customer 9903
Customer 9904
Customer 9905
Customer 9906
Customer 9907
Customer 9908
Customer 9909
Customer 9910
Customer 9911
Customer 9912
Customer 9913
Customer 9914
Customer 9915
Customer 9916
Customer 9917
Customer 9918
Customer 9919
Customer 9920
Customer 9921
Customer 9922
Customer 9923
Customer 9924
Customer 9925
Customer 9926
Customer 9927
Customer 9928
Customer 9929
Customer 9930
Customer 9931
Customer 9932
Customer 9933
Customer 9934
Customer 9935
Customer 9936
Customer 9937
Customer 9938
Customer 9939
Customer 9940
Customer 9941
Customer 9942
Customer 9943
Customer 9944
Customer 9945
Customer 9946
Customer 9947
Customer 9948
Customer 9949
Customer 9950

Restitution
Amount

$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$

879.71
33.69
22.64
59.90
18.65
2,029.69
30.01
17.16
10.10
30.44
26.70
74.46
141.05
274.91
20.56
182.25
48.50
48.55
50.93
1,432.53
159.60
16.66
11.17
130.41
137.76
12.75
62.70
12.36
298.94
12.93
10.37
191.80
16.39
122.50
741.25
154.61
42.47
109.20
71.82
81.90
60.06
21.84
202.02
60.84
63.25
273.00
27.30
190.24
334.80
226.45

Customer
Customer 9951
Customer 9952
Customer 9953
Customer 9954
Customer 9955
Customer 9956
Customer 9957
Customer 9958
Customer 9959
Customer 9960
Customer 9961
Customer 9962
Customer 9963
Customer 9964
Customer 9965
Customer 9966
Customer 9967
Customer 9968
Customer 9969
Customer 9970
Customer 9971
Customer 9972
Customer 9973
Customer 9974
Customer 9975
Customer 9976
Customer 9977
Customer 9978
Customer 9979
Customer 9980
Customer 9981
Customer 9982
Customer 9983
Customer 9984
Customer 9985
Customer 9986
Customer 9987
Customer 9988
Customer 9989
Customer 9990
Customer 9991
Customer 9992
Customer 9993
Customer 9994
Customer 9995
Customer 9996
Customer 9997
Customer 9998
Customer 9999
Customer 10000

Restitution
Amount

$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$

18.74
108.81
971.51
21.87
80.36
48.05
245.72
777.26
37.44
179.86
24.96
171.84
17.60
228.67
202.02
65.30
173.17
806.99
255.52
72.63
26.61
96.40
1,208.92
24.41
351.77
57.12
80.31
10.92
112.79
97.68
18.93
26.61
1,548.33
163.50
44.78
515.39
418.04
2,191.91
33.82
276.12
510.40
83.07
43.85
35.38
40.44
150.70
25.21
236.16
71.38
27.98

Customer
Customer 10001
Customer 10002
Customer 10003
Customer 10004
Customer 10005
Customer 10006
Customer 10007
Customer 10008
Customer 10009
Customer 10010
Customer 10011
Customer 10012
Customer 10013
Customer 10014
Customer 10015
Customer 10016
Customer 10017
Customer 10018
Customer 10019
Customer 10020
Customer 10021
Customer 10022
Customer 10023
Customer 10024
Customer 10025
Customer 10026
Customer 10027
Customer 10028
Customer 10029
Customer 10030
Customer 10031
Customer 10032
Customer 10033
Customer 10034
Customer 10035
Customer 10036
Customer 10037
Customer 10038
Customer 10039
Customer 10040
Customer 10041
Customer 10042
Customer 10043
Customer 10044
Customer 10045
Customer 10046
Customer 10047
Customer 10048
Customer 10049
Customer 10050

Restitution
Amount

$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$

87.13
52.54
33.26
65.63
230.02
130.25
36.45
4,360.29
63.73
53.22
17.84
208.05
37.78
403.68
1,282.65
122.76
35.41
44.40
20.89
180.86
323.94
88.57
60.48
43.69
97.96
179.40
821.35
79.89
11.49
676.94
904.02
665.05
71.56
27.84
625.98
888.24
141.56
129.00
13.50
25.84
35.97
92.80
1,896.79
493.94
27.12
526.48
887.50
27.07
109.03
57.30

Attachment A
Customer
Customer 10051
Customer 10052
Customer 10053
Customer 10054
Customer 10055
Customer 10056
Customer 10057
Customer 10058
Customer 10059
Customer 10060
Customer 10061
Customer 10062
Customer 10063
Customer 10064
Customer 10065
Customer 10066
Customer 10067
Customer 10068
Customer 10069
Customer 10070
Customer 10071
Customer 10072
Customer 10073
Customer 10074
Customer 10075
Customer 10076
Customer 10077
Customer 10078
Customer 10079
Customer 10080
Customer 10081
Customer 10082
Customer 10083
Customer 10084
Customer 10085
Customer 10086
Customer 10087
Customer 10088
Customer 10089
Customer 10090
Customer 10091
Customer 10092
Customer 10093
Customer 10094
Customer 10095
Customer 10096
Customer 10097
Customer 10098
Customer 10099
Customer 10100

Restitution
Amount

$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$

10.13
12.85
21.84
443.99
111.37
74.76
24.18
173.90
486.75
131.21
16.44
533.12
88.75
417.75
90.62
91.54
19.29
1,042.88
55.05
103.40
44.18
81.66
33.65
43.76
291.54
54.00
59.58
30.94
142.95
88.16
20.86
45.20
24.19
42.40
17.13
624.86
19.07
11.68
43.79
95.54
14.29
153.40
52.26
83.55
143.84
466.03
85.98
31.73
53.20
306.33

Customer
Customer 10101
Customer 10102
Customer 10103
Customer 10104
Customer 10105
Customer 10106
Customer 10107
Customer 10108
Customer 10109
Customer 10110
Customer 10111
Customer 10112
Customer 10113
Customer 10114
Customer 10115
Customer 10116
Customer 10117
Customer 10118
Customer 10119
Customer 10120
Customer 10121
Customer 10122
Customer 10123
Customer 10124
Customer 10125
Customer 10126
Customer 10127
Customer 10128
Customer 10129
Customer 10130
Customer 10131
Customer 10132
Customer 10133
Customer 10134
Customer 10135
Customer 10136
Customer 10137
Customer 10138
Customer 10139
Customer 10140
Customer 10141
Customer 10142
Customer 10143
Customer 10144
Customer 10145
Customer 10146
Customer 10147
Customer 10148
Customer 10149
Customer 10150

Restitution
Amount

$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$

135.47
769.26
165.02
136.57
32.93
33.49
417.75
35.60
136.24
5,381.25
321.30
743.87
237.70
10,376.00
282.60
28.58
11.70
26.36
3,055.00
10.69
3,343.45
3,570.59
14.66
12.25
24.47
231.69
20,472.73
26,992.29
324.68
23.32
970.21
2,497.68
11.16
467.38
51.04
31.20
20.12
217.50
89.97
90.35
24.00
65.99
11.00
90.70
454.70
12.20
12.43
13.65
117.60
373.62

Customer
Customer 10151
Customer 10152
Customer 10153
Customer 10154
Customer 10155
Customer 10156
Customer 10157
Customer 10158
Customer 10159
Customer 10160
Customer 10161
Customer 10162
Customer 10163
Customer 10164
Customer 10165
Customer 10166
Customer 10167
Customer 10168
Customer 10169
Customer 10170
Customer 10171
Customer 10172
Customer 10173
Customer 10174
Customer 10175
Customer 10176
Customer 10177
Customer 10178
Customer 10179
Customer 10180
Customer 10181
Customer 10182
Customer 10183
Customer 10184
Customer 10185
Customer 10186
Customer 10187
Customer 10188
Customer 10189
Customer 10190
Customer 10191
Customer 10192
Customer 10193
Customer 10194
Customer 10195
Customer 10196
Customer 10197
Customer 10198
Customer 10199
Customer 10200

Restitution
Amount

$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$

919.69
102.51
37.31
1,817.45
29.31
6,563.44
38.70
13.16
3,829.24
35.99
33.76
93.94
77.63
33.63
36.26
1,771.12
134.94
10.56
496.25
54.96
51.34
62.08
53.82
849.63
53.00
82.00
27.10
69.00
2,589.41
424.19
41.00
49.80
49.00
207.38
352.89
99.56
2,414.00
25.97
67.99
18.99
37.84
315.79
11.17
22.34
27.93
12.71
27.93
64.88
10.71
13.25

Attachment A
Customer
Customer 10201
Customer 10202
Customer 10203
Customer 10204
Customer 10205
Customer 10206
Customer 10207
Customer 10208
Customer 10209
Customer 10210
Customer 10211
Customer 10212
Customer 10213
Customer 10214
Customer 10215
Customer 10216
Customer 10217
Customer 10218
Customer 10219
Customer 10220
Customer 10221
Customer 10222
Customer 10223
Customer 10224
Customer 10225
Customer 10226
Customer 10227
Customer 10228
Customer 10229
Customer 10230
Customer 10231
Customer 10232
Customer 10233
Customer 10234
Customer 10235
Customer 10236
Customer 10237
Customer 10238
Customer 10239
Customer 10240
Customer 10241
Customer 10242
Customer 10243
Customer 10244
Customer 10245
Customer 10246
Customer 10247
Customer 10248
Customer 10249
Customer 10250

Restitution
Amount

$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$

26.86
11.06
17.87
27.44
18.77
2,115.10
19.31
45.65
58.87
15.36
75.25
236.04
321.54
48.80
120.20
20.50
112.20
45.68
358.70
790.35
549.62
86.97
608.70
406.09
1,172.69
658.76
3,968.23
1,072.40
554.06
32.91
33.87
98.47
506.25
26.62
214.36
1,665.40
94.41
10.36
101.04
196.37
35.19
24.17
24.90
107.18
289.16
247.18
73.40
29.70
78.00
148.43

Customer
Customer 10251
Customer 10252
Customer 10253
Customer 10254
Customer 10255
Customer 10256
Customer 10257
Customer 10258
Customer 10259
Customer 10260
Customer 10261
Customer 10262
Customer 10263
Customer 10264
Customer 10265
Customer 10266
Customer 10267
Customer 10268
Customer 10269
Customer 10270
Customer 10271
Customer 10272
Customer 10273
Customer 10274
Customer 10275
Customer 10276
Customer 10277
Customer 10278
Customer 10279
Customer 10280
Customer 10281
Customer 10282
Customer 10283
Customer 10284
Customer 10285
Customer 10286
Customer 10287
Customer 10288
Customer 10289
Customer 10290
Customer 10291
Customer 10292
Customer 10293
Customer 10294
Customer 10295
Customer 10296
Customer 10297
Customer 10298

Restitution
Amount

$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$

1,477.60
3,282.31
308.34
107.62
51.38
27.78
576.13
411.35
155.55
7,781.60
2,607.50
165.30
821.34
39.39
198.73
7,626.99
101.85
147.45
2,873.25
2,931.32
96.71
900.98
15.74
882.70
2,374.65
53.46
537.90
342.64
679.68
14.93
135.49
461.20
9,734.18
2,710.35
493.94
20.25
112.51
10,884.59
109.81
35.08
269.64
7,924.81
46.75
1,579.98
89.31
12.30
115.00
172.32

Attachment B
Trade
Trade 1
Trade 2
Trade 3
Trade 4
Trade 5
Trade 6
Trade 7
Trade 8
Trade 9
Trade 10
Trade 11
Trade 12
Trade 13
Trade 14
Trade 15
Trade 16
Trade 17
Trade 18
Trade 19
Trade 20
Trade 21
Trade 22
Trade 23
Trade 24
Trade 25
Trade 26
Trade 27
Trade 28
Trade 29
Trade 30
Trade 31
Trade 32
Trade 33
Trade 34
Trade 35
Trade 36
Trade 37
Trade 38
Trade 39
Trade 40
Trade 41
Trade 42
Trade 43
Trade 44
Trade 45
Trade 46
Trade 47
Trade 48
Trade 49
Trade 50

Restitution
Amount
$
106.77
$
71.71
$
41.69
$
42.06
$
34.65
$
1.32
$
1.32
$
1.32
$
20.56
$
20.26
$
20.26
$
20.49
$
3.23
$
9.41
$
1.79
$
5.58
$
3.98
$
2.79
$
1.99
$
6.09
$
1.08
$
1.40
$
9.28
$
1.71
$
5.77
$
2.06
$
3.25
$
1.35
$
8.22
$
14.32
$
7.51
$
4.16
$
5.40
$
1.90
$
2.88
$
5.61
$
1.73
$
1.41
$
4.09
$
1.79
$
1.03
$
1.36
$
2.81
$
1.97
$
1.01
$
2.63
$
2.16
$
12.52
$
4.69
$
2.13

Trade
Trade 51
Trade 52
Trade 53
Trade 54
Trade 55
Trade 56
Trade 57
Trade 58
Trade 59
Trade 60
Trade 61
Trade 62
Trade 63
Trade 64
Trade 65
Trade 66
Trade 67
Trade 68
Trade 69
Trade 70
Trade 71
Trade 72
Trade 73
Trade 74
Trade 75
Trade 76
Trade 77
Trade 78
Trade 79
Trade 80
Trade 81
Trade 82
Trade 83
Trade 84
Trade 85
Trade 86
Trade 87
Trade 88
Trade 89
Trade 90
Trade 91
Trade 92
Trade 93
Trade 94
Trade 95
Trade 96
Trade 97
Trade 98
Trade 99
Trade 100

Restitution
Amount
$
11.95
$
15.19
$
8.72
$
1.47
$
4.27
$
2.90
$
13.40
$
7.09
$
2.48
$
1.83
$
7.58
$
3.70
$
1.09
$
1.33
$
13.40
$
6.29
$
8.80
$
1.23
$
1.63
$
1.99
$
2.79
$
2.99
$
4.18
$
1.79
$
2.71
$
14.07
$
3.79
$
1.39
$
1.95
$
1.79
$
8.78
$
1.40
$
2.93
$
4.05
$
2.79
$
1.99
$
8.25
$
11.55
$
2.06
$
10.29
$
5.36
$
1.20
$
8.36
$
4.14
$
2.79
$
1.99
$
1.99
$
2.79
$
9.16
$
12.83

Trade
Trade 101
Trade 102
Trade 103
Trade 104
Trade 105
Trade 106
Trade 107
Trade 108
Trade 109
Trade 110
Trade 111
Trade 112
Trade 113
Trade 114
Trade 115
Trade 116
Trade 117
Trade 118
Trade 119
Trade 120
Trade 121
Trade 122
Trade 123
Trade 124
Trade 125
Trade 126
Trade 127
Trade 128
Trade 129
Trade 130
Trade 131
Trade 132
Trade 133
Trade 134
Trade 135
Trade 136
Trade 137
Trade 138
Trade 139
Trade 140
Trade 141
Trade 142
Trade 143
Trade 144
Trade 145
Trade 146
Trade 147
Trade 148
Trade 149
Trade 150

Restitution
Amount
$
2.06
$
8.31
$
1.99
$
2.79
$
1.25
$
1.40
$
5.23
$
1.82
$
8.25
$
11.55
$
1.66
$
3.98
$
5.58
$
5.98
$
8.37
$
1.99
$
2.79
$
1.40
$
9.93
$
13.91
$
3.67
$
1.65
$
1.25
$
6.22
$
1.06
$
8.50
$
1.99
$
6.95
$
8.93
$
4.54
$
2.88
$
6.61
$
7.18
$
3.35
$
1.79
$
1.28
$
4.09
$
14.01
$
9.74
$
7.88
$
10.73
$
6.85
$
3.17
$
1.61
$
5.28
$
9.74
$
9.09
$
4.87
$
5.34
$
3.23

Attachment B
Trade
Trade 151
Trade 152
Trade 153
Trade 154
Trade 155
Trade 156
Trade 157
Trade 158
Trade 159
Trade 160
Trade 161
Trade 162
Trade 163
Trade 164
Trade 165
Trade 166
Trade 167
Trade 168
Trade 169
Trade 170
Trade 171
Trade 172
Trade 173
Trade 174
Trade 175
Trade 176
Trade 177
Trade 178
Trade 179
Trade 180
Trade 181
Trade 182
Trade 183
Trade 184
Trade 185
Trade 186
Trade 187
Trade 188
Trade 189
Trade 190
Trade 191
Trade 192
Trade 193
Trade 194
Trade 195
Trade 196
Trade 197
Trade 198
Trade 199
Trade 200

Restitution
Amount
$
13.17
$
1.79
$
4.55
$
4.24
$
1.61
$
2.27
$
1.61
$
6.48
$
12.96
$
4.55
$
1.82
$
3.23
$
1.17
$
2.27
$
1.09
$
5.43
$
1.79
$
13.64
$
1.09
$
1.61
$
2.85
$
9.09
$
2.55
$
4.55
$
7.45
$
2.27
$
2.27
$
7.60
$
6.22
$
4.97
$
8.93
$
4.55
$
1.61
$
3.89
$
4.85
$
4.55
$
4.55
$
1.82
$
12.96
$
3.63
$
2.84
$
1.36
$
12.34
$
4.55
$
4.80
$
1.40
$
4.44
$
2.27
$
4.55
$
9.74

Trade
Trade 201
Trade 202
Trade 203
Trade 204
Trade 205
Trade 206
Trade 207
Trade 208
Trade 209
Trade 210
Trade 211
Trade 212
Trade 213
Trade 214
Trade 215
Trade 216
Trade 217
Trade 218
Trade 219
Trade 220
Trade 221
Trade 222
Trade 223
Trade 224
Trade 225
Trade 226
Trade 227
Trade 228
Trade 229
Trade 230
Trade 231
Trade 232
Trade 233
Trade 234
Trade 235
Trade 236
Trade 237
Trade 238
Trade 239
Trade 240
Trade 241
Trade 242
Trade 243
Trade 244
Trade 245
Trade 246
Trade 247
Trade 248
Trade 249
Trade 250

Restitution
Amount
$
1.07
$
4.55
$
2.27
$
4.84
$
9.37
$
3.19
$
3.17
$
1.82
$
2.41
$
1.61
$
1.51
$
1.79
$
10.06
$
7.20
$
1.79
$
1.79
$
3.18
$
2.27
$
1.36
$
2.27
$
4.55
$
4.55
$
7.14
$
1.79
$
1.79
$
2.33
$
1.55
$
4.55
$
4.54
$
2.27
$
3.43
$
2.27
$
1.79
$
1.79
$
1.14
$
2.12
$
6.23
$
1.61
$
3.64
$
4.32
$
1.82
$
1.31
$
1.79
$
6.86
$
9.09
$
2.97
$
1.61
$
1.07
$
3.57
$
2.27

Trade
Trade 251
Trade 252
Trade 253
Trade 254
Trade 255
Trade 256
Trade 257
Trade 258
Trade 259
Trade 260
Trade 261
Trade 262
Trade 263
Trade 264
Trade 265
Trade 266
Trade 267
Trade 268
Trade 269
Trade 270
Trade 271
Trade 272
Trade 273
Trade 274
Trade 275
Trade 276
Trade 277
Trade 278
Trade 279
Trade 280
Trade 281
Trade 282
Trade 283
Trade 284
Trade 285
Trade 286
Trade 287
Trade 288
Trade 289
Trade 290
Trade 291
Trade 292
Trade 293
Trade 294
Trade 295
Trade 296
Trade 297
Trade 298
Trade 299
Trade 300

Restitution
Amount
$
2.27
$
1.79
$
1.36
$
7.14
$
3.70
$
4.54
$
9.09
$
2.27
$
2.70
$
4.55
$
1.82
$
5.77
$
2.27
$
9.09
$
3.24
$
8.92
$
9.09
$
9.09
$
1.01
$
4.87
$
1.36
$
1.79
$
1.94
$
9.09
$
4.55
$
2.27
$
1.61
$
4.55
$
2.27
$
9.09
$
9.74
$
4.11
$
4.55
$
2.27
$
3.64
$
1.82
$
2.27
$
4.55
$
11.67
$
13.40
$
14.02
$
13.51
$
13.53
$
13.51
$
13.51
$
13.52
$
13.51
$
13.51
$
13.91
$
12.53

Attachment B
Trade
Trade 301
Trade 302
Trade 303
Trade 304
Trade 305
Trade 306
Trade 307
Trade 308
Trade 309
Trade 310
Trade 311
Trade 312
Trade 313
Trade 314
Trade 315
Trade 316
Trade 317
Trade 318
Trade 319
Trade 320
Trade 321
Trade 322
Trade 323
Trade 324
Trade 325
Trade 326
Trade 327
Trade 328
Trade 329
Trade 330
Trade 331
Trade 332
Trade 333
Trade 334
Trade 335
Trade 336
Trade 337
Trade 338
Trade 339
Trade 340
Trade 341
Trade 342
Trade 343
Trade 344
Trade 345
Trade 346
Trade 347
Trade 348
Trade 349
Trade 350

Restitution
Amount
$
13.39
$
13.51
$
13.51
$
12.24
$
12.53
$
12.54
$
11.14
$
10.81
$
11.18
$
10.81
$
12.21
$
11.06
$
11.66
$
11.10
$
8.95
$
8.91
$
8.38
$
8.13
$
8.11
$
7.80
$
9.05
$
8.11
$
1.56
$
3.36
$
1.97
$
2.69
$
4.66
$
1.74
$
1.03
$
1.55
$
2.59
$
1.66
$
2.59
$
3.42
$
3.44
$
3.45
$
1.03
$
6.66
$
6.36
$
6.64
$
5.96
$
6.04
$
6.26
$
6.34
$
6.75
$
5.61
$
6.08
$
6.70
$
6.75
$
7.07

Trade
Trade 351
Trade 352
Trade 353
Trade 354
Trade 355
Trade 356
Trade 357
Trade 358
Trade 359
Trade 360
Trade 361
Trade 362
Trade 363
Trade 364
Trade 365
Trade 366
Trade 367
Trade 368
Trade 369
Trade 370
Trade 371
Trade 372
Trade 373
Trade 374
Trade 375
Trade 376
Trade 377
Trade 378
Trade 379
Trade 380
Trade 381
Trade 382
Trade 383
Trade 384
Trade 385
Trade 386
Trade 387
Trade 388
Trade 389
Trade 390
Trade 391
Trade 392
Trade 393
Trade 394
Trade 395
Trade 396
Trade 397
Trade 398
Trade 399
Trade 400

Restitution
Amount
$
6.75
$
6.75
$
6.07
$
6.78
$
6.75
$
7.09
$
6.75
$
5.40
$
5.40
$
5.27
$
6.85
$
5.85
$
2.80
$
2.15
$
2.80
$
2.80
$
4.43
$
2.32
$
1.90
$
1.33
$
3.77
$
2.54
$
1.70
$
3.87
$
1.86
$
1.33
$
3.94
$
1.81
$
2.17
$
1.70
$
2.70
$
1.30
$
1.92
$
3.82
$
1.55
$
1.25
$
2.80
$
3.96
$
3.87
$
3.47
$
2.80
$
1.55
$
1.24
$
1.33
$
3.13
$
1.71
$
2.32
$
1.08
$
1.55
$
1.55

Trade
Trade 401
Trade 402
Trade 403
Trade 404
Trade 405
Trade 406
Trade 407
Trade 408
Trade 409
Trade 410
Trade 411
Trade 412
Trade 413
Trade 414
Trade 415
Trade 416
Trade 417
Trade 418
Trade 419
Trade 420
Trade 421
Trade 422
Trade 423
Trade 424
Trade 425
Trade 426
Trade 427
Trade 428
Trade 429
Trade 430
Trade 431
Trade 432
Trade 433
Trade 434
Trade 435
Trade 436
Trade 437
Trade 438
Trade 439
Trade 440
Trade 441
Trade 442
Trade 443
Trade 444
Trade 445
Trade 446
Trade 447
Trade 448
Trade 449
Trade 450

Restitution
Amount
$
2.47
$
1.24
$
1.55
$
1.33
$
1.55
$
1.44
$
2.51
$
1.95
$
1.58
$
3.32
$
1.55
$
4.35
$
1.55
$
1.55
$
2.47
$
3.32
$
2.32
$
2.53
$
3.75
$
1.55
$
1.98
$
1.70
$
3.10
$
1.70
$
1.65
$
3.47
$
2.58
$
1.70
$
1.38
$
1.98
$
3.39
$
2.80
$
1.24
$
3.75
$
2.66
$
1.88
$
2.32
$
2.19
$
1.77
$
1.33
$
1.33
$
1.55
$
3.47
$
1.62
$
4.14
$
1.48
$
1.90
$
2.80
$
3.02
$
1.33

Attachment B
Trade
Trade 451
Trade 452
Trade 453
Trade 454
Trade 455
Trade 456
Trade 457
Trade 458
Trade 459
Trade 460
Trade 461
Trade 462
Trade 463
Trade 464
Trade 465
Trade 466
Trade 467
Trade 468
Trade 469
Trade 470
Trade 471
Trade 472
Trade 473
Trade 474
Trade 475
Trade 476
Trade 477
Trade 478
Trade 479
Trade 480
Trade 481
Trade 482
Trade 483
Trade 484
Trade 485
Trade 486
Trade 487
Trade 488
Trade 489
Trade 490
Trade 491
Trade 492
Trade 493
Trade 494
Trade 495
Trade 496
Trade 497
Trade 498
Trade 499
Trade 500

Restitution
Amount
$
3.87
$
1.70
$
1.99
$
1.73
$
3.70
$
2.04
$
2.69
$
1.70
$
1.39
$
2.80
$
1.58
$
2.44
$
2.12
$
1.10
$
3.32
$
2.80
$
1.50
$
1.60
$
3.70
$
1.33
$
2.80
$
3.10
$
3.32
$
1.70
$
1.55
$
1.93
$
1.25
$
1.55
$
1.55
$
1.33
$
1.08
$
1.33
$
1.24
$
1.70
$
1.64
$
3.26
$
1.55
$
1.28
$
3.10
$
2.77
$
1.70
$
1.55
$
1.40
$
1.70
$
1.39
$
1.48
$
1.55
$
3.99
$
1.18
$
1.33

Trade
Trade 501
Trade 502
Trade 503
Trade 504
Trade 505
Trade 506
Trade 507
Trade 508
Trade 509
Trade 510
Trade 511
Trade 512
Trade 513
Trade 514
Trade 515
Trade 516
Trade 517
Trade 518
Trade 519
Trade 520
Trade 521
Trade 522
Trade 523
Trade 524
Trade 525
Trade 526
Trade 527
Trade 528
Trade 529
Trade 530
Trade 531
Trade 532
Trade 533
Trade 534
Trade 535
Trade 536
Trade 537
Trade 538
Trade 539
Trade 540
Trade 541
Trade 542
Trade 543
Trade 544
Trade 545
Trade 546
Trade 547
Trade 548
Trade 549
Trade 550

Restitution
Amount
$
1.55
$
1.55
$
1.55
$
1.02
$
1.70
$
1.47
$
1.33
$
3.10
$
1.70
$
2.49
$
2.51
$
1.33
$
1.33
$
1.33
$
1.33
$
3.10
$
2.37
$
2.04
$
1.33
$
1.73
$
1.55
$
1.70
$
1.79
$
1.19
$
1.88
$
1.33
$
1.33
$
1.95
$
1.23
$
2.33
$
1.55
$
2.65
$
1.86
$
1.08
$
1.33
$
1.08
$
1.70
$
1.15
$
1.33
$
2.20
$
1.55
$
1.03
$
1.79
$
4.35
$
4.22
$
1.15
$
1.57
$
2.90
$
3.87
$
1.55

Trade
Trade 551
Trade 552
Trade 553
Trade 554
Trade 555
Trade 556
Trade 557
Trade 558
Trade 559
Trade 560
Trade 561
Trade 562
Trade 563
Trade 564
Trade 565
Trade 566
Trade 567
Trade 568
Trade 569
Trade 570
Trade 571
Trade 572
Trade 573
Trade 574
Trade 575
Trade 576
Trade 577
Trade 578
Trade 579
Trade 580
Trade 581
Trade 582
Trade 583
Trade 584
Trade 585
Trade 586
Trade 587
Trade 588
Trade 589
Trade 590
Trade 591
Trade 592
Trade 593
Trade 594
Trade 595
Trade 596
Trade 597
Trade 598
Trade 599
Trade 600

Restitution
Amount
$
2.12
$
1.55
$
1.40
$
1.89
$
1.55
$
3.10
$
3.10
$
3.40
$
3.87
$
2.51
$
1.24
$
3.04
$
1.55
$
1.55
$
1.98
$
1.99
$
1.33
$
2.29
$
1.67
$
1.80
$
2.76
$
1.33
$
1.50
$
1.77
$
1.33
$
1.86
$
2.17
$
3.47
$
1.82
$
1.55
$
3.17
$
3.01
$
3.16
$
1.39
$
2.30
$
1.26
$
2.17
$
3.32
$
1.34
$
1.51
$
1.44
$
1.11
$
1.24
$
1.01
$
2.80
$
2.66
$
1.33
$
1.70
$
1.10
$
1.84

Attachment B
Trade
Trade 601
Trade 602
Trade 603
Trade 604
Trade 605
Trade 606
Trade 607
Trade 608
Trade 609
Trade 610
Trade 611
Trade 612
Trade 613
Trade 614
Trade 615
Trade 616
Trade 617
Trade 618
Trade 619
Trade 620
Trade 621
Trade 622
Trade 623
Trade 624
Trade 625
Trade 626
Trade 627
Trade 628
Trade 629
Trade 630
Trade 631
Trade 632
Trade 633
Trade 634
Trade 635
Trade 636
Trade 637
Trade 638
Trade 639
Trade 640
Trade 641
Trade 642
Trade 643
Trade 644
Trade 645
Trade 646
Trade 647
Trade 648
Trade 649
Trade 650

Restitution
Amount
$
1.24
$
3.69
$
1.70
$
1.25
$
2.75
$
3.87
$
1.70
$
3.10
$
1.99
$
1.82
$
1.33
$
1.85
$
1.06
$
1.55
$
1.81
$
1.14
$
1.70
$
1.55
$
2.57
$
1.14
$
1.29
$
1.99
$
1.24
$
1.51
$
1.38
$
1.11
$
1.55
$
2.79
$
3.75
$
1.55
$
2.69
$
3.54
$
1.70
$
2.80
$
3.10
$
2.80
$
1.78
$
1.55
$
1.33
$
3.10
$
1.55
$
1.75
$
2.09
$
2.30
$
1.47
$
2.80
$
1.99
$
1.48
$
3.25
$
4.86

Trade
Trade 651
Trade 652
Trade 653
Trade 654
Trade 655
Trade 656
Trade 657
Trade 658
Trade 659
Trade 660
Trade 661
Trade 662
Trade 663
Trade 664
Trade 665
Trade 666
Trade 667
Trade 668
Trade 669
Trade 670
Trade 671
Trade 672
Trade 673
Trade 674
Trade 675
Trade 676
Trade 677
Trade 678
Trade 679
Trade 680
Trade 681
Trade 682
Trade 683
Trade 684
Trade 685
Trade 686
Trade 687
Trade 688
Trade 689
Trade 690
Trade 691
Trade 692
Trade 693
Trade 694
Trade 695
Trade 696
Trade 697
Trade 698
Trade 699
Trade 700

Restitution
Amount
$
3.87
$
1.27
$
2.28
$
2.79
$
2.70
$
1.34
$
1.48
$
3.35
$
3.97
$
2.57
$
2.40
$
1.76
$
1.45
$
2.44
$
1.52
$
1.24
$
1.23
$
1.52
$
2.77
$
1.66
$
1.91
$
1.75
$
1.20
$
1.59
$
1.65
$
1.42
$
1.11
$
1.48
$
1.09
$
1.46
$
2.27
$
1.57
$
1.97
$
1.51
$
1.42
$
1.74
$
2.00
$
1.48
$
1.07
$
2.12
$
1.77
$
1.79
$
1.70
$
1.47
$
1.53
$
1.08
$
1.84
$
1.01
$
1.53
$
1.05

Trade
Trade 701
Trade 702
Trade 703
Trade 704
Trade 705
Trade 706
Trade 707
Trade 708
Trade 709
Trade 710
Trade 711
Trade 712
Trade 713
Trade 714
Trade 715
Trade 716
Trade 717
Trade 718
Trade 719
Trade 720
Trade 721
Trade 722
Trade 723
Trade 724
Trade 725
Trade 726
Trade 727
Trade 728
Trade 729
Trade 730
Trade 731
Trade 732
Trade 733
Trade 734
Trade 735
Trade 736
Trade 737
Trade 738
Trade 739
Trade 740
Trade 741
Trade 742
Trade 743
Trade 744
Trade 745
Trade 746
Trade 747
Trade 748
Trade 749
Trade 750

Restitution
Amount
$
1.48
$
2.28
$
1.59
$
1.35
$
2.12
$
1.62
$
1.73
$
2.20
$
2.01
$
1.49
$
1.17
$
2.53
$
1.78
$
1.98
$
1.47
$
1.11
$
3.32
$
1.11
$
2.77
$
5.62
$
1.11
$
1.49
$
1.20
$
1.11
$
1.12
$
2.65
$
1.02
$
1.66
$
3.38
$
2.77
$
1.18
$
1.91
$
1.31
$
1.28
$
4.77
$
1.40
$
1.12
$
1.04
$
1.16
$
1.64
$
1.95
$
3.01
$
5.21
$
2.64
$
2.49
$
2.44
$
1.97
$
2.53
$
2.07
$
3.83

Attachment B
Trade
Trade 751
Trade 752
Trade 753
Trade 754
Trade 755
Trade 756
Trade 757
Trade 758
Trade 759
Trade 760
Trade 761
Trade 762
Trade 763
Trade 764
Trade 765
Trade 766
Trade 767
Trade 768
Trade 769
Trade 770
Trade 771
Trade 772
Trade 773
Trade 774
Trade 775
Trade 776
Trade 777
Trade 778
Trade 779
Trade 780
Trade 781
Trade 782
Trade 783
Trade 784
Trade 785
Trade 786
Trade 787
Trade 788
Trade 789
Trade 790
Trade 791
Trade 792
Trade 793
Trade 794
Trade 795
Trade 796
Trade 797
Trade 798
Trade 799
Trade 800

Restitution
Amount
$
1.10
$
1.26
$
1.26
$
2.15
$
1.69
$
2.17
$
1.70
$
1.75
$
1.48
$
1.62
$
1.76
$
1.67
$
1.51
$
1.59
$
1.62
$
1.97
$
1.90
$
1.45
$
1.62
$
1.61
$
1.28
$
1.46
$
1.36
$
1.04
$
1.74
$
1.05
$
1.63
$
1.11
$
1.22
$
2.00
$
1.56
$
1.30
$
1.12
$
1.40
$
1.14
$
1.07
$
1.30
$
1.50
$
1.01
$
1.49
$
1.11
$
1.10
$
1.45
$
1.69
$
1.70
$
1.17
$
1.77
$
1.09
$
1.42
$
1.62

Trade
Trade 801
Trade 802
Trade 803
Trade 804
Trade 805
Trade 806
Trade 807
Trade 808
Trade 809
Trade 810
Trade 811
Trade 812
Trade 813
Trade 814
Trade 815
Trade 816
Trade 817
Trade 818
Trade 819
Trade 820
Trade 821
Trade 822
Trade 823
Trade 824
Trade 825
Trade 826
Trade 827
Trade 828
Trade 829
Trade 830
Trade 831
Trade 832
Trade 833
Trade 834
Trade 835
Trade 836
Trade 837
Trade 838
Trade 839
Trade 840
Trade 841
Trade 842
Trade 843
Trade 844
Trade 845
Trade 846
Trade 847
Trade 848
Trade 849
Trade 850

Restitution
Amount
$
1.34
$
1.09
$
1.42
$
2.10
$
1.80
$
1.72
$
1.07
$
1.34
$
1.43
$
1.07
$
1.22
$
1.80
$
1.62
$
1.40
$
1.47
$
1.11
$
2.15
$
1.65
$
1.28
$
1.51
$
1.50
$
1.52
$
2.46
$
1.62
$
1.82
$
2.51
$
1.67
$
2.38
$
1.64
$
1.25
$
1.39
$
1.02
$
1.51
$
1.97
$
1.31
$
2.66
$
2.64
$
2.17
$
1.96
$
2.15
$
1.33
$
1.64
$
1.07
$
1.39
$
1.23
$
2.13
$
1.35
$
1.24
$
1.95
$
1.14

Trade
Trade 851
Trade 852
Trade 853
Trade 854
Trade 855
Trade 856
Trade 857
Trade 858
Trade 859
Trade 860
Trade 861
Trade 862
Trade 863
Trade 864
Trade 865
Trade 866
Trade 867
Trade 868
Trade 869
Trade 870
Trade 871
Trade 872
Trade 873
Trade 874
Trade 875
Trade 876
Trade 877
Trade 878
Trade 879
Trade 880
Trade 881
Trade 882
Trade 883
Trade 884
Trade 885
Trade 886
Trade 887
Trade 888
Trade 889
Trade 890
Trade 891
Trade 892
Trade 893
Trade 894
Trade 895
Trade 896
Trade 897
Trade 898
Trade 899
Trade 900

Restitution
Amount
$
1.10
$
1.87
$
1.27
$
1.61
$
1.77
$
1.23
$
1.34
$
1.73
$
1.08
$
1.58
$
1.86
$
1.24
$
2.06
$
1.53
$
1.61
$
1.06
$
1.62
$
1.90
$
1.04
$
1.22
$
1.28
$
1.45
$
1.12
$
1.34
$
1.15
$
2.04
$
1.08
$
1.36
$
1.15
$
1.14
$
1.48
$
1.61
$
2.05
$
1.02
$
1.69
$
1.53
$
1.66
$
1.39
$
1.95
$
1.93
$
1.45
$
1.13
$
1.03
$
1.11
$
1.24
$
1.79
$
1.67
$
1.91
$
2.13
$
1.16

Attachment B
Trade
Trade 901
Trade 902
Trade 903
Trade 904
Trade 905
Trade 906
Trade 907
Trade 908
Trade 909
Trade 910
Trade 911
Trade 912
Trade 913
Trade 914
Trade 915
Trade 916
Trade 917
Trade 918
Trade 919
Trade 920
Trade 921
Trade 922
Trade 923
Trade 924
Trade 925
Trade 926
Trade 927
Trade 928
Trade 929
Trade 930
Trade 931
Trade 932
Trade 933
Trade 934
Trade 935
Trade 936
Trade 937
Trade 938
Trade 939
Trade 940
Trade 941
Trade 942
Trade 943
Trade 944
Trade 945
Trade 946
Trade 947
Trade 948
Trade 949
Trade 950

Restitution
Amount
$
1.52
$
2.18
$
1.99
$
1.39
$
4.80
$
2.46
$
1.35
$
1.35
$
2.13
$
1.59
$
1.98
$
1.35
$
1.35
$
1.69
$
1.16
$
1.69
$
3.38
$
1.29
$
2.80
$
1.35
$
1.85
$
2.01
$
1.35
$
2.65
$
2.04
$
1.41
$
1.35
$
3.38
$
2.80
$
2.20
$
1.35
$
2.70
$
1.70
$
1.22
$
1.50
$
2.13
$
2.71
$
3.38
$
1.35
$
1.38
$
1.35
$
1.35
$
1.35
$
1.58
$
1.52
$
2.80
$
1.08
$
3.38
$
1.06
$
2.70

Trade
Trade 951
Trade 952
Trade 953
Trade 954
Trade 955
Trade 956
Trade 957
Trade 958
Trade 959
Trade 960
Trade 961
Trade 962
Trade 963
Trade 964
Trade 965
Trade 966
Trade 967
Trade 968
Trade 969
Trade 970
Trade 971
Trade 972
Trade 973
Trade 974
Trade 975
Trade 976
Trade 977
Trade 978
Trade 979
Trade 980
Trade 981
Trade 982
Trade 983
Trade 984
Trade 985
Trade 986
Trade 987
Trade 988
Trade 989
Trade 990
Trade 991
Trade 992
Trade 993
Trade 994
Trade 995
Trade 996
Trade 997
Trade 998
Trade 999
Trade 1000

Restitution
Amount
$
4.15
$
1.56
$
1.36
$
2.09
$
1.08
$
1.22
$
2.42
$
1.35
$
1.49
$
1.00
$
1.03
$
2.17
$
1.22
$
2.59
$
1.39
$
1.35
$
1.35
$
1.70
$
1.35
$
1.57
$
3.38
$
1.35
$
1.35
$
1.03
$
1.20
$
1.22
$
1.78
$
1.35
$
4.15
$
1.48
$
2.70
$
1.22
$
1.69
$
4.05
$
2.80
$
1.43
$
2.80
$
1.35
$
1.96
$
1.17
$
1.89
$
1.27
$
1.78
$
2.71
$
1.38
$
1.35
$
1.35
$
1.05
$
1.28
$
1.08

Trade
Trade 1001
Trade 1002
Trade 1003
Trade 1004
Trade 1005
Trade 1006
Trade 1007
Trade 1008
Trade 1009
Trade 1010
Trade 1011
Trade 1012
Trade 1013
Trade 1014
Trade 1015
Trade 1016
Trade 1017
Trade 1018
Trade 1019
Trade 1020
Trade 1021
Trade 1022
Trade 1023
Trade 1024
Trade 1025
Trade 1026
Trade 1027
Trade 1028
Trade 1029
Trade 1030
Trade 1031
Trade 1032
Trade 1033
Trade 1034
Trade 1035
Trade 1036
Trade 1037
Trade 1038
Trade 1039
Trade 1040
Trade 1041
Trade 1042
Trade 1043
Trade 1044
Trade 1045
Trade 1046
Trade 1047
Trade 1048
Trade 1049
Trade 1050

Restitution
Amount
$
2.26
$
2.46
$
1.35
$
2.03
$
1.35
$
1.67
$
1.05
$
1.37
$
1.37
$
1.59
$
1.37
$
1.37
$
1.35
$
1.37
$
1.14
$
1.35
$
2.71
$
1.62
$
4.13
$
1.35
$
1.17
$
2.71
$
1.35
$
1.35
$
1.94
$
2.70
$
1.35
$
4.13
$
3.13
$
1.35
$
4.14
$
3.33
$
2.22
$
1.37
$
1.46
$
1.21
$
1.42
$
1.71
$
1.45
$
1.22
$
2.05
$
2.65
$
1.35
$
1.30
$
3.38
$
2.03
$
1.69
$
2.38
$
1.35
$
1.24

Attachment B
Trade
Trade 1051
Trade 1052
Trade 1053
Trade 1054
Trade 1055
Trade 1056
Trade 1057
Trade 1058
Trade 1059
Trade 1060
Trade 1061
Trade 1062
Trade 1063
Trade 1064
Trade 1065
Trade 1066
Trade 1067
Trade 1068
Trade 1069
Trade 1070
Trade 1071
Trade 1072
Trade 1073
Trade 1074
Trade 1075
Trade 1076
Trade 1077
Trade 1078
Trade 1079
Trade 1080
Trade 1081
Trade 1082
Trade 1083
Trade 1084
Trade 1085
Trade 1086
Trade 1087
Trade 1088
Trade 1089
Trade 1090
Trade 1091
Trade 1092
Trade 1093
Trade 1094
Trade 1095
Trade 1096
Trade 1097
Trade 1098
Trade 1099
Trade 1100

Restitution
Amount
$
1.36
$
1.59
$
3.14
$
1.72
$
1.35
$
1.37
$
1.56
$
2.65
$
4.26
$
2.70
$
2.62
$
2.80
$
2.70
$
2.75
$
1.35
$
1.42
$
2.70
$
1.20
$
1.26
$
2.24
$
1.18
$
1.35
$
1.29
$
3.38
$
1.12
$
1.33
$
1.35
$
1.09
$
2.84
$
2.15
$
2.80
$
2.80
$
1.62
$
1.05
$
1.11
$
4.13
$
1.35
$
1.31
$
1.35
$
1.35
$
1.35
$
1.35
$
1.35
$
2.17
$
1.43
$
3.22
$
1.35
$
2.65
$
1.02
$
1.39

Trade
Trade 1101
Trade 1102
Trade 1103
Trade 1104
Trade 1105
Trade 1106
Trade 1107
Trade 1108
Trade 1109
Trade 1110
Trade 1111
Trade 1112
Trade 1113
Trade 1114
Trade 1115
Trade 1116
Trade 1117
Trade 1118
Trade 1119
Trade 1120
Trade 1121
Trade 1122
Trade 1123
Trade 1124
Trade 1125
Trade 1126
Trade 1127
Trade 1128
Trade 1129
Trade 1130
Trade 1131
Trade 1132
Trade 1133
Trade 1134
Trade 1135
Trade 1136
Trade 1137
Trade 1138
Trade 1139
Trade 1140
Trade 1141
Trade 1142
Trade 1143
Trade 1144
Trade 1145
Trade 1146
Trade 1147
Trade 1148
Trade 1149
Trade 1150

Restitution
Amount
$
1.19
$
1.59
$
1.36
$
1.41
$
1.66
$
1.62
$
1.98
$
1.11
$
1.50
$
3.80
$
1.35
$
1.78
$
1.10
$
2.16
$
1.50
$
2.09
$
1.76
$
1.35
$
2.70
$
1.35
$
1.59
$
1.35
$
1.92
$
2.70
$
1.41
$
1.35
$
1.04
$
1.29
$
1.68
$
1.08
$
2.33
$
1.34
$
1.32
$
2.32
$
1.35
$
1.06
$
1.49
$
4.64
$
1.47
$
2.71
$
2.80
$
1.00
$
2.04
$
1.73
$
1.35
$
3.38
$
1.35
$
2.70
$
1.67
$
1.41

Trade
Trade 1151
Trade 1152
Trade 1153
Trade 1154
Trade 1155
Trade 1156
Trade 1157
Trade 1158
Trade 1159
Trade 1160
Trade 1161
Trade 1162
Trade 1163
Trade 1164
Trade 1165
Trade 1166
Trade 1167
Trade 1168
Trade 1169
Trade 1170
Trade 1171
Trade 1172
Trade 1173
Trade 1174
Trade 1175
Trade 1176
Trade 1177
Trade 1178
Trade 1179
Trade 1180
Trade 1181
Trade 1182
Trade 1183
Trade 1184
Trade 1185
Trade 1186
Trade 1187
Trade 1188
Trade 1189
Trade 1190
Trade 1191
Trade 1192
Trade 1193
Trade 1194
Trade 1195
Trade 1196
Trade 1197
Trade 1198
Trade 1199
Trade 1200

Restitution
Amount
$
2.60
$
1.35
$
1.69
$
2.31
$
1.49
$
1.02
$
1.41
$
3.57
$
2.05
$
2.43
$
1.83
$
1.43
$
1.22
$
1.35
$
4.37
$
1.55
$
1.41
$
1.35
$
1.35
$
2.25
$
1.38
$
1.56
$
2.52
$
1.36
$
1.09
$
1.62
$
1.22
$
1.65
$
1.35
$
1.35
$
1.83
$
1.38
$
1.46
$
1.36
$
1.35
$
1.35
$
1.36
$
1.59
$
1.35
$
3.38
$
1.35
$
1.35
$
3.38
$
1.35
$
1.66
$
1.36
$
1.35
$
1.42
$
1.37
$
2.88

Attachment B
Trade
Trade 1201
Trade 1202
Trade 1203
Trade 1204
Trade 1205
Trade 1206
Trade 1207
Trade 1208
Trade 1209
Trade 1210
Trade 1211
Trade 1212
Trade 1213
Trade 1214
Trade 1215
Trade 1216
Trade 1217
Trade 1218
Trade 1219
Trade 1220
Trade 1221
Trade 1222
Trade 1223
Trade 1224
Trade 1225
Trade 1226
Trade 1227
Trade 1228
Trade 1229
Trade 1230
Trade 1231
Trade 1232
Trade 1233
Trade 1234
Trade 1235
Trade 1236
Trade 1237
Trade 1238
Trade 1239
Trade 1240
Trade 1241
Trade 1242
Trade 1243
Trade 1244
Trade 1245
Trade 1246
Trade 1247
Trade 1248
Trade 1249
Trade 1250

Restitution
Amount
$
1.02
$
1.15
$
1.35
$
2.74
$
1.46
$
2.70
$
1.29
$
1.35
$
1.22
$
1.42
$
1.42
$
1.36
$
2.36
$
1.08
$
1.36
$
1.08
$
1.35
$
1.08
$
1.14
$
1.35
$
2.80
$
2.01
$
1.30
$
1.47
$
3.38
$
1.00
$
1.90
$
1.35
$
1.34
$
4.59
$
1.37
$
1.35
$
1.42
$
3.38
$
1.46
$
2.80
$
1.12
$
3.44
$
1.14
$
1.35
$
1.35
$
1.35
$
1.43
$
1.97
$
2.80
$
1.35
$
1.42
$
2.23
$
1.35
$
1.22

Trade
Trade 1251
Trade 1252
Trade 1253
Trade 1254
Trade 1255
Trade 1256
Trade 1257
Trade 1258
Trade 1259
Trade 1260
Trade 1261
Trade 1262
Trade 1263
Trade 1264
Trade 1265
Trade 1266
Trade 1267
Trade 1268
Trade 1269
Trade 1270
Trade 1271
Trade 1272
Trade 1273
Trade 1274
Trade 1275
Trade 1276
Trade 1277
Trade 1278
Trade 1279
Trade 1280
Trade 1281
Trade 1282
Trade 1283
Trade 1284
Trade 1285
Trade 1286
Trade 1287
Trade 1288
Trade 1289
Trade 1290
Trade 1291
Trade 1292
Trade 1293
Trade 1294
Trade 1295
Trade 1296
Trade 1297
Trade 1298
Trade 1299
Trade 1300

Restitution
Amount
$
1.35
$
2.80
$
1.04
$
2.71
$
1.35
$
1.35
$
1.20
$
1.82
$
1.35
$
2.03
$
1.39
$
1.10
$
1.35
$
1.36
$
2.00
$
1.41
$
1.74
$
1.35
$
2.70
$
2.03
$
1.35
$
2.03
$
1.65
$
2.80
$
2.71
$
1.35
$
1.35
$
2.05
$
1.35
$
2.39
$
1.35
$
1.35
$
2.16
$
2.71
$
2.03
$
1.35
$
1.40
$
1.89
$
1.76
$
2.81
$
1.08
$
2.57
$
1.28
$
1.25
$
1.31
$
1.35
$
1.35
$
2.65
$
4.05
$
2.80

Trade
Trade 1301
Trade 1302
Trade 1303
Trade 1304
Trade 1305
Trade 1306
Trade 1307
Trade 1308
Trade 1309
Trade 1310
Trade 1311
Trade 1312
Trade 1313
Trade 1314
Trade 1315
Trade 1316
Trade 1317
Trade 1318
Trade 1319
Trade 1320
Trade 1321
Trade 1322
Trade 1323
Trade 1324
Trade 1325
Trade 1326
Trade 1327
Trade 1328
Trade 1329
Trade 1330
Trade 1331
Trade 1332
Trade 1333
Trade 1334
Trade 1335
Trade 1336
Trade 1337
Trade 1338
Trade 1339
Trade 1340
Trade 1341
Trade 1342
Trade 1343
Trade 1344
Trade 1345
Trade 1346
Trade 1347
Trade 1348
Trade 1349
Trade 1350

Restitution
Amount
$
1.35
$
1.35
$
1.44
$
1.42
$
1.01
$
1.35
$
2.79
$
1.35
$
1.07
$
1.12
$
1.18
$
4.89
$
1.13
$
1.35
$
1.35
$
1.42
$
2.70
$
3.07
$
1.35
$
1.35
$
1.30
$
1.91
$
3.38
$
1.12
$
1.82
$
1.35
$
1.35
$
4.05
$
1.35
$
1.35
$
2.70
$
1.69
$
2.71
$
1.73
$
3.08
$
1.42
$
1.18
$
2.71
$
1.36
$
2.70
$
1.35
$
1.35
$
1.41
$
2.24
$
2.16
$
2.03
$
1.08
$
2.67
$
4.05
$
3.38

Attachment B
Trade
Trade 1351
Trade 1352
Trade 1353
Trade 1354
Trade 1355
Trade 1356
Trade 1357
Trade 1358
Trade 1359
Trade 1360
Trade 1361
Trade 1362
Trade 1363
Trade 1364
Trade 1365
Trade 1366
Trade 1367
Trade 1368
Trade 1369
Trade 1370
Trade 1371
Trade 1372
Trade 1373
Trade 1374
Trade 1375
Trade 1376
Trade 1377
Trade 1378
Trade 1379
Trade 1380
Trade 1381
Trade 1382
Trade 1383
Trade 1384
Trade 1385
Trade 1386
Trade 1387
Trade 1388
Trade 1389
Trade 1390
Trade 1391
Trade 1392
Trade 1393
Trade 1394
Trade 1395
Trade 1396
Trade 1397
Trade 1398
Trade 1399
Trade 1400

Restitution
Amount
$
1.38
$
1.96
$
1.56
$
2.70
$
1.37
$
2.04
$
4.12
$
2.70
$
1.39
$
1.35
$
3.38
$
3.92
$
1.35
$
1.35
$
1.39
$
1.35
$
1.35
$
2.70
$
2.53
$
1.59
$
1.35
$
1.43
$
1.70
$
1.33
$
1.61
$
2.03
$
1.56
$
1.06
$
1.35
$
1.06
$
1.39
$
1.37
$
1.43
$
3.38
$
1.42
$
2.22
$
2.63
$
1.38
$
1.35
$
1.31
$
1.78
$
1.35
$
2.70
$
2.03
$
1.35
$
1.28
$
2.43
$
1.11
$
3.03
$
2.73

Trade
Trade 1401
Trade 1402
Trade 1403
Trade 1404
Trade 1405
Trade 1406
Trade 1407
Trade 1408
Trade 1409
Trade 1410
Trade 1411
Trade 1412
Trade 1413
Trade 1414
Trade 1415
Trade 1416
Trade 1417
Trade 1418
Trade 1419
Trade 1420
Trade 1421
Trade 1422
Trade 1423
Trade 1424
Trade 1425
Trade 1426
Trade 1427
Trade 1428
Trade 1429
Trade 1430
Trade 1431
Trade 1432
Trade 1433
Trade 1434
Trade 1435
Trade 1436
Trade 1437
Trade 1438
Trade 1439
Trade 1440
Trade 1441
Trade 1442
Trade 1443
Trade 1444
Trade 1445
Trade 1446
Trade 1447
Trade 1448
Trade 1449
Trade 1450

Restitution
Amount
$
2.84
$
1.65
$
1.41
$
1.22
$
1.45
$
1.22
$
1.55
$
1.36
$
1.01
$
1.35
$
1.35
$
1.06
$
1.26
$
1.12
$
1.40
$
2.72
$
1.35
$
1.35
$
2.05
$
1.01
$
1.35
$
1.64
$
1.68
$
1.41
$
1.43
$
1.18
$
1.35
$
2.03
$
3.28
$
1.26
$
2.03
$
1.42
$
1.76
$
1.33
$
1.35
$
1.92
$
1.40
$
1.30
$
1.59
$
1.02
$
2.84
$
1.36
$
1.89
$
1.35
$
2.71
$
1.35
$
1.41
$
1.67
$
4.05
$
1.04

Trade
Trade 1451
Trade 1452
Trade 1453
Trade 1454
Trade 1455
Trade 1456
Trade 1457
Trade 1458
Trade 1459
Trade 1460
Trade 1461
Trade 1462
Trade 1463
Trade 1464
Trade 1465
Trade 1466
Trade 1467
Trade 1468
Trade 1469
Trade 1470
Trade 1471
Trade 1472
Trade 1473
Trade 1474
Trade 1475
Trade 1476
Trade 1477
Trade 1478
Trade 1479
Trade 1480
Trade 1481
Trade 1482
Trade 1483
Trade 1484
Trade 1485
Trade 1486
Trade 1487
Trade 1488
Trade 1489
Trade 1490
Trade 1491
Trade 1492
Trade 1493
Trade 1494
Trade 1495
Trade 1496
Trade 1497
Trade 1498
Trade 1499
Trade 1500

Restitution
Amount
$
1.02
$
2.71
$
1.40
$
1.22
$
1.01
$
1.67
$
1.35
$
1.06
$
2.08
$
1.43
$
1.19
$
1.35
$
1.09
$
1.08
$
1.15
$
1.35
$
1.16
$
1.89
$
1.46
$
1.06
$
1.82
$
1.41
$
1.35
$
1.35
$
1.23
$
1.21
$
2.16
$
4.05
$
1.49
$
1.38
$
3.33
$
1.35
$
1.14
$
1.39
$
1.97
$
1.35
$
1.35
$
1.35
$
1.22
$
1.45
$
2.25
$
2.04
$
1.03
$
1.33
$
1.35
$
2.80
$
1.21
$
1.35
$
1.35
$
1.35

Attachment B
Trade
Trade 1501
Trade 1502
Trade 1503
Trade 1504
Trade 1505
Trade 1506
Trade 1507
Trade 1508
Trade 1509
Trade 1510
Trade 1511
Trade 1512
Trade 1513
Trade 1514
Trade 1515
Trade 1516
Trade 1517
Trade 1518
Trade 1519
Trade 1520
Trade 1521
Trade 1522
Trade 1523
Trade 1524
Trade 1525
Trade 1526
Trade 1527
Trade 1528
Trade 1529
Trade 1530
Trade 1531
Trade 1532
Trade 1533
Trade 1534
Trade 1535
Trade 1536
Trade 1537
Trade 1538
Trade 1539
Trade 1540
Trade 1541
Trade 1542
Trade 1543
Trade 1544
Trade 1545
Trade 1546
Trade 1547
Trade 1548
Trade 1549
Trade 1550

Restitution
Amount
$
1.79
$
1.35
$
1.23
$
2.70
$
1.67
$
1.22
$
3.06
$
1.37
$
2.70
$
1.41
$
2.80
$
1.03
$
2.03
$
1.18
$
2.61
$
2.03
$
1.87
$
1.35
$
1.22
$
2.84
$
1.37
$
1.50
$
1.35
$
1.96
$
1.35
$
1.01
$
1.42
$
1.22
$
1.43
$
1.35
$
1.40
$
1.41
$
1.43
$
1.43
$
3.15
$
1.69
$
4.14
$
1.35
$
1.24
$
2.03
$
4.14
$
1.29
$
1.35
$
2.07
$
1.35
$
2.43
$
1.35
$
2.76
$
1.12
$
1.35

Trade
Trade 1551
Trade 1552
Trade 1553
Trade 1554
Trade 1555
Trade 1556
Trade 1557
Trade 1558
Trade 1559
Trade 1560
Trade 1561
Trade 1562
Trade 1563
Trade 1564
Trade 1565
Trade 1566
Trade 1567
Trade 1568
Trade 1569
Trade 1570
Trade 1571
Trade 1572
Trade 1573
Trade 1574
Trade 1575
Trade 1576
Trade 1577
Trade 1578
Trade 1579
Trade 1580
Trade 1581
Trade 1582
Trade 1583
Trade 1584
Trade 1585
Trade 1586
Trade 1587
Trade 1588
Trade 1589
Trade 1590
Trade 1591
Trade 1592
Trade 1593
Trade 1594
Trade 1595
Trade 1596
Trade 1597
Trade 1598
Trade 1599
Trade 1600

Restitution
Amount
$
1.35
$
1.70
$
1.35
$
1.12
$
1.35
$
1.36
$
1.31
$
2.70
$
1.35
$
1.22
$
1.40
$
2.70
$
2.45
$
1.40
$
2.71
$
1.57
$
1.69
$
1.93
$
1.35
$
1.22
$
2.19
$
1.35
$
1.57
$
2.06
$
1.19
$
2.07
$
2.03
$
1.35
$
2.36
$
1.00
$
1.41
$
1.35
$
1.35
$
1.36
$
1.18
$
1.20
$
2.70
$
1.35
$
2.46
$
1.41
$
1.69
$
2.12
$
1.35
$
1.35
$
1.35
$
2.70
$
1.57
$
4.09
$
2.16
$
1.35

Trade
Trade 1601
Trade 1602
Trade 1603
Trade 1604
Trade 1605
Trade 1606
Trade 1607
Trade 1608
Trade 1609
Trade 1610
Trade 1611
Trade 1612
Trade 1613
Trade 1614
Trade 1615
Trade 1616
Trade 1617
Trade 1618
Trade 1619
Trade 1620
Trade 1621
Trade 1622
Trade 1623
Trade 1624
Trade 1625
Trade 1626
Trade 1627
Trade 1628
Trade 1629
Trade 1630
Trade 1631
Trade 1632
Trade 1633
Trade 1634
Trade 1635
Trade 1636
Trade 1637
Trade 1638
Trade 1639
Trade 1640
Trade 1641
Trade 1642
Trade 1643
Trade 1644
Trade 1645
Trade 1646
Trade 1647
Trade 1648
Trade 1649
Trade 1650

Restitution
Amount
$
1.35
$
1.35
$
1.12
$
1.26
$
1.35
$
1.52
$
1.22
$
1.35
$
1.40
$
1.81
$
1.42
$
1.44
$
1.35
$
1.35
$
1.35
$
1.35
$
2.21
$
2.07
$
1.35
$
1.35
$
1.95
$
1.35
$
1.35
$
1.07
$
2.71
$
1.36
$
1.10
$
1.11
$
1.36
$
1.91
$
1.63
$
1.44
$
1.02
$
1.13
$
2.71
$
1.36
$
1.35
$
3.91
$
3.23
$
2.71
$
1.63
$
1.02
$
1.03
$
1.35
$
2.80
$
1.35
$
1.35
$
2.76
$
1.20
$
1.96

Attachment B
Trade
Trade 1651
Trade 1652
Trade 1653
Trade 1654
Trade 1655
Trade 1656
Trade 1657
Trade 1658
Trade 1659
Trade 1660
Trade 1661
Trade 1662
Trade 1663
Trade 1664
Trade 1665
Trade 1666
Trade 1667
Trade 1668
Trade 1669
Trade 1670
Trade 1671
Trade 1672
Trade 1673
Trade 1674
Trade 1675
Trade 1676
Trade 1677
Trade 1678
Trade 1679
Trade 1680
Trade 1681
Trade 1682
Trade 1683
Trade 1684
Trade 1685
Trade 1686
Trade 1687
Trade 1688
Trade 1689
Trade 1690
Trade 1691
Trade 1692
Trade 1693
Trade 1694
Trade 1695
Trade 1696
Trade 1697
Trade 1698
Trade 1699
Trade 1700

Restitution
Amount
$
1.91
$
2.00
$
1.66
$
1.74
$
1.07
$
1.92
$
1.21
$
1.32
$
1.19
$
1.25
$
1.23
$
1.14
$
1.62
$
1.92
$
1.75
$
1.03
$
1.79
$
1.29
$
1.08
$
1.75
$
1.49
$
1.79
$
1.32
$
1.45
$
2.09
$
1.92
$
1.40
$
1.79
$
1.17
$
1.20
$
1.75
$
1.92
$
1.36
$
1.10
$
1.15
$
1.20
$
1.53
$
1.54
$
1.51
$
1.27
$
1.58
$
1.03
$
1.04
$
1.09
$
1.92
$
1.66
$
1.03
$
1.40
$
1.02
$
1.14

Trade
Trade 1701
Trade 1702
Trade 1703
Trade 1704
Trade 1705
Trade 1706
Trade 1707
Trade 1708
Trade 1709
Trade 1710
Trade 1711
Trade 1712
Trade 1713
Trade 1714
Trade 1715
Trade 1716
Trade 1717
Trade 1718
Trade 1719
Trade 1720
Trade 1721
Trade 1722
Trade 1723
Trade 1724
Trade 1725
Trade 1726
Trade 1727
Trade 1728
Trade 1729
Trade 1730
Trade 1731
Trade 1732
Trade 1733
Trade 1734
Trade 1735
Trade 1736
Trade 1737
Trade 1738
Trade 1739
Trade 1740
Trade 1741
Trade 1742
Trade 1743
Trade 1744
Trade 1745
Trade 1746
Trade 1747
Trade 1748
Trade 1749
Trade 1750

Restitution
Amount
$
1.92
$
1.92
$
1.10
$
1.21
$
1.25
$
1.44
$
1.06
$
1.09
$
1.92
$
1.23
$
1.03
$
1.40
$
1.92
$
1.19
$
1.40
$
1.03
$
1.92
$
1.62
$
1.12
$
1.23
$
1.75
$
1.96
$
1.07
$
1.01
$
1.71
$
1.66
$
1.75
$
1.80
$
1.66
$
1.66
$
1.09
$
1.31
$
1.75
$
1.08
$
1.03
$
1.41
$
1.12
$
1.53
$
1.74
$
1.10
$
1.20
$
1.27
$
1.09
$
1.01
$
1.15
$
1.23
$
2.10
$
1.98
$
1.32
$
1.92

Trade
Trade 1751
Trade 1752
Trade 1753
Trade 1754
Trade 1755
Trade 1756
Trade 1757
Trade 1758
Trade 1759
Trade 1760
Trade 1761
Trade 1762
Trade 1763
Trade 1764
Trade 1765
Trade 1766
Trade 1767
Trade 1768
Trade 1769
Trade 1770
Trade 1771
Trade 1772
Trade 1773
Trade 1774
Trade 1775
Trade 1776
Trade 1777
Trade 1778
Trade 1779
Trade 1780
Trade 1781
Trade 1782
Trade 1783
Trade 1784
Trade 1785
Trade 1786
Trade 1787
Trade 1788
Trade 1789
Trade 1790
Trade 1791
Trade 1792
Trade 1793
Trade 1794
Trade 1795
Trade 1796
Trade 1797
Trade 1798
Trade 1799
Trade 1800

Restitution
Amount
$
1.51
$
1.05
$
1.44
$
1.06
$
1.23
$
1.10
$
1.03
$
1.59
$
1.66
$
1.68
$
1.09
$
1.15
$
1.92
$
1.36
$
1.06
$
2.05
$
1.39
$
1.09
$
1.12
$
1.05
$
1.62
$
1.14
$
1.09
$
1.09
$
1.03
$
1.69
$
1.40
$
1.14
$
1.14
$
1.03
$
1.07
$
2.05
$
1.33
$
1.66
$
1.23
$
1.16
$
1.26
$
1.23
$
1.66
$
1.64
$
2.96
$
1.03
$
1.09
$
1.19
$
1.32
$
1.40
$
1.08
$
1.21
$
1.44
$
1.12

Attachment B
Trade
Trade 1801
Trade 1802
Trade 1803
Trade 1804
Trade 1805
Trade 1806
Trade 1807
Trade 1808
Trade 1809
Trade 1810
Trade 1811
Trade 1812
Trade 1813
Trade 1814
Trade 1815
Trade 1816
Trade 1817
Trade 1818
Trade 1819
Trade 1820
Trade 1821
Trade 1822
Trade 1823
Trade 1824
Trade 1825
Trade 1826
Trade 1827
Trade 1828
Trade 1829
Trade 1830
Trade 1831
Trade 1832
Trade 1833
Trade 1834
Trade 1835
Trade 1836
Trade 1837
Trade 1838
Trade 1839
Trade 1840
Trade 1841
Trade 1842
Trade 1843
Trade 1844
Trade 1845
Trade 1846
Trade 1847
Trade 1848
Trade 1849
Trade 1850

Restitution
Amount
$
1.10
$
1.23
$
1.35
$
1.20
$
1.28
$
1.80
$
1.14
$
1.37
$
1.62
$
1.13
$
1.22
$
1.79
$
1.33
$
1.79
$
1.43
$
1.55
$
1.39
$
1.21
$
1.24
$
1.36
$
1.22
$
1.02
$
1.33
$
1.12
$
1.36
$
1.22
$
1.36
$
1.12
$
1.30
$
1.14
$
1.10
$
1.15
$
1.26
$
1.14
$
1.15
$
1.32
$
1.07
$
1.16
$
1.03
$
1.21
$
1.67
$
1.17
$
1.08
$
1.63
$
1.37
$
1.81
$
1.02
$
2.14
$
2.00
$
1.04

Trade
Trade 1851
Trade 1852
Trade 1853
Trade 1854
Trade 1855
Trade 1856
Trade 1857
Trade 1858
Trade 1859
Trade 1860
Trade 1861
Trade 1862
Trade 1863
Trade 1864
Trade 1865
Trade 1866
Trade 1867
Trade 1868
Trade 1869
Trade 1870
Trade 1871
Trade 1872
Trade 1873
Trade 1874
Trade 1875
Trade 1876
Trade 1877
Trade 1878
Trade 1879
Trade 1880
Trade 1881
Trade 1882
Trade 1883
Trade 1884
Trade 1885
Trade 1886
Trade 1887
Trade 1888
Trade 1889
Trade 1890
Trade 1891
Trade 1892
Trade 1893
Trade 1894
Trade 1895
Trade 1896
Trade 1897
Trade 1898
Trade 1899
Trade 1900

Restitution
Amount
$
1.93
$
1.11
$
1.14
$
1.34
$
1.33
$
1.27
$
1.29
$
1.16
$
1.22
$
1.46
$
1.46
$
1.41
$
1.67
$
1.27
$
1.06
$
1.12
$
1.00
$
1.35
$
1.22
$
1.40
$
1.27
$
1.14
$
1.08
$
1.11
$
1.42
$
1.22
$
1.16
$
1.56
$
1.11
$
1.38
$
1.60
$
1.22
$
1.35
$
1.28
$
1.02
$
1.01
$
1.36
$
2.05
$
1.20
$
1.08
$
1.06
$
1.23
$
1.03
$
1.02
$
1.23
$
1.11
$
1.25
$
2.44
$
1.11
$
1.56

Trade
Trade 1901
Trade 1902
Trade 1903
Trade 1904
Trade 1905
Trade 1906
Trade 1907
Trade 1908
Trade 1909
Trade 1910
Trade 1911
Trade 1912
Trade 1913
Trade 1914
Trade 1915
Trade 1916
Trade 1917
Trade 1918
Trade 1919
Trade 1920
Trade 1921
Trade 1922
Trade 1923
Trade 1924
Trade 1925
Trade 1926
Trade 1927
Trade 1928
Trade 1929
Trade 1930
Trade 1931
Trade 1932
Trade 1933
Trade 1934
Trade 1935
Trade 1936
Trade 1937
Trade 1938
Trade 1939
Trade 1940
Trade 1941
Trade 1942
Trade 1943
Trade 1944
Trade 1945
Trade 1946
Trade 1947
Trade 1948
Trade 1949
Trade 1950

Restitution
Amount
$
1.24
$
1.65
$
1.16
$
40.08
$
15.58
$
18.38
$
1.81
$
6.87
$
5.42
$
6.87
$
6.87
$
7.23
$
3.62
$
3.62
$
3.62
$
3.62
$
3.62
$
3.62
$
3.62
$
3.62
$
3.62
$
3.62
$
3.62
$
3.62
$
3.62
$
3.62
$
3.62
$
3.62
$
5.42
$
3.62
$
3.62
$
3.62
$
3.62
$
3.62
$
3.62
$
3.62
$
3.62
$
3.62
$
3.62
$
3.62
$
7.23
$
7.23
$
7.23
$
7.23
$
3.62
$
7.23
$
9.04
$
3.62
$
14.46
$
1.84

Attachment B
Trade
Trade 1951
Trade 1952
Trade 1953
Trade 1954
Trade 1955
Trade 1956
Trade 1957
Trade 1958
Trade 1959
Trade 1960
Trade 1961
Trade 1962
Trade 1963
Trade 1964
Trade 1965
Trade 1966
Trade 1967
Trade 1968
Trade 1969
Trade 1970
Trade 1971
Trade 1972
Trade 1973
Trade 1974
Trade 1975
Trade 1976
Trade 1977
Trade 1978
Trade 1979
Trade 1980
Trade 1981
Trade 1982
Trade 1983
Trade 1984
Trade 1985
Trade 1986
Trade 1987
Trade 1988
Trade 1989
Trade 1990
Trade 1991
Trade 1992
Trade 1993
Trade 1994
Trade 1995
Trade 1996
Trade 1997
Trade 1998
Trade 1999
Trade 2000

Restitution
Amount
$
21.70
$
19.80
$
6.89
$
2.53
$
6.41
$
2.39
$
2.65
$
13.01
$
13.86
$
5.56
$
1.74
$
6.30
$
2.97
$
2.29
$
4.11
$
1.64
$
1.64
$
1.32
$
5.10
$
15.47
$
3.57
$
5.55
$
4.28
$
7.90
$
2.86
$
6.86
$
2.29
$
1.71
$
2.86
$
2.86
$
2.86
$
2.86
$
2.86
$
3.43
$
1.40
$
4.57
$
2.29
$
2.86
$
5.27
$
2.39
$
1.78
$
6.35
$
2.20
$
2.20
$
2.20
$
3.51
$
1.10
$
1.20
$
7.37
$
3.35

Trade
Trade 2001
Trade 2002
Trade 2003
Trade 2004
Trade 2005
Trade 2006
Trade 2007
Trade 2008
Trade 2009
Trade 2010
Trade 2011
Trade 2012
Trade 2013
Trade 2014
Trade 2015
Trade 2016
Trade 2017
Trade 2018
Trade 2019
Trade 2020
Trade 2021
Trade 2022
Trade 2023
Trade 2024
Trade 2025
Trade 2026
Trade 2027
Trade 2028
Trade 2029
Trade 2030
Trade 2031
Trade 2032
Trade 2033
Trade 2034
Trade 2035
Trade 2036
Trade 2037
Trade 2038
Trade 2039
Trade 2040
Trade 2041
Trade 2042
Trade 2043
Trade 2044
Trade 2045
Trade 2046
Trade 2047
Trade 2048
Trade 2049
Trade 2050

Restitution
Amount
$
2.16
$
1.24
$
3.07
$
7.14
$
1.31
$
1.31
$
4.59
$
2.29
$
3.59
$
1.14
$
1.14
$
6.52
$
3.69
$
3.30
$
3.37
$
3.02
$
2.06
$
4.80
$
1.98
$
2.07
$
3.82
$
3.94
$
3.40
$
1.33
$
1.80
$
1.16
$
4.11
$
2.02
$
2.51
$
1.93
$
1.65
$
2.36
$
2.33
$
1.40
$
1.13
$
1.38
$
2.16
$
1.93
$
2.06
$
1.77
$
1.58
$
1.23
$
2.17
$
1.98
$
1.42
$
1.26
$
1.26
$
2.53
$
6.72
$
2.12

Trade
Trade 2051
Trade 2052
Trade 2053
Trade 2054
Trade 2055
Trade 2056
Trade 2057
Trade 2058
Trade 2059
Trade 2060
Trade 2061
Trade 2062
Trade 2063
Trade 2064
Trade 2065
Trade 2066
Trade 2067
Trade 2068
Trade 2069
Trade 2070
Trade 2071
Trade 2072
Trade 2073
Trade 2074
Trade 2075
Trade 2076
Trade 2077
Trade 2078
Trade 2079
Trade 2080
Trade 2081
Trade 2082
Trade 2083
Trade 2084
Trade 2085
Trade 2086
Trade 2087
Trade 2088
Trade 2089
Trade 2090
Trade 2091
Trade 2092
Trade 2093
Trade 2094
Trade 2095
Trade 2096
Trade 2097
Trade 2098
Trade 2099
Trade 2100

Restitution
Amount
$
2.01
$
2.02
$
1.64
$
1.34
$
1.64
$
1.16
$
2.23
$
1.21
$
1.63
$
2.02
$
1.07
$
1.16
$
1.07
$
2.02
$
2.65
$
2.60
$
4.05
$
2.17
$
1.52
$
1.71
$
1.68
$
1.06
$
1.91
$
1.10
$
2.52
$
2.41
$
1.44
$
1.25
$
2.35
$
1.51
$
1.03
$
1.58
$
2.03
$
1.69
$
1.79
$
1.49
$
1.85
$
3.33
$
1.51
$
1.56
$
1.56
$
1.40
$
2.67
$
1.53
$
1.47
$
1.80
$
1.43
$
1.12
$
1.09
$
1.50

Attachment B
Trade
Trade 2101
Trade 2102
Trade 2103
Trade 2104
Trade 2105
Trade 2106
Trade 2107
Trade 2108
Trade 2109
Trade 2110
Trade 2111
Trade 2112
Trade 2113
Trade 2114
Trade 2115
Trade 2116
Trade 2117
Trade 2118
Trade 2119
Trade 2120
Trade 2121
Trade 2122
Trade 2123
Trade 2124
Trade 2125
Trade 2126
Trade 2127
Trade 2128
Trade 2129
Trade 2130
Trade 2131
Trade 2132
Trade 2133
Trade 2134
Trade 2135
Trade 2136
Trade 2137
Trade 2138
Trade 2139
Trade 2140
Trade 2141
Trade 2142
Trade 2143
Trade 2144
Trade 2145
Trade 2146
Trade 2147
Trade 2148
Trade 2149
Trade 2150

Restitution
Amount
$
1.82
$
1.00
$
1.64
$
3.33
$
2.20
$
1.52
$
1.91
$
1.63
$
1.75
$
1.06
$
1.03
$
1.01
$
1.26
$
1.06
$
1.03
$
1.30
$
1.69
$
1.36
$
1.20
$
1.08
$
1.66
$
1.39
$
1.89
$
1.79
$
2.41
$
1.28
$
1.29
$
3.22
$
1.89
$
1.22
$
1.14
$
2.06
$
2.17
$
1.11
$
1.12
$
1.09
$
2.32
$
1.11
$
1.42
$
1.21
$
1.19
$
1.07
$
1.86
$
1.06
$
1.27
$
1.12
$
1.35
$
1.65
$
2.29
$
1.26

Trade
Trade 2151
Trade 2152
Trade 2153
Trade 2154
Trade 2155
Trade 2156
Trade 2157
Trade 2158
Trade 2159
Trade 2160
Trade 2161
Trade 2162
Trade 2163
Trade 2164
Trade 2165
Trade 2166
Trade 2167
Trade 2168
Trade 2169
Trade 2170
Trade 2171
Trade 2172
Trade 2173
Trade 2174
Trade 2175
Trade 2176
Trade 2177
Trade 2178
Trade 2179
Trade 2180
Trade 2181
Trade 2182
Trade 2183
Trade 2184
Trade 2185
Trade 2186
Trade 2187
Trade 2188
Trade 2189
Trade 2190
Trade 2191
Trade 2192
Trade 2193
Trade 2194
Trade 2195
Trade 2196
Trade 2197
Trade 2198
Trade 2199
Trade 2200

Restitution
Amount
$
1.44
$
1.04
$
1.39
$
1.17
$
1.73
$
1.84
$
1.11
$
1.98
$
1.35
$
1.72
$
1.33
$
1.02
$
1.29
$
2.04
$
1.30
$
1.24
$
1.25
$
1.12
$
1.18
$
1.44
$
1.31
$
1.94
$
1.30
$
1.37
$
2.03
$
2.08
$
1.34
$
1.01
$
3.06
$
1.62
$
1.46
$
1.47
$
1.51
$
1.18
$
1.56
$
1.10
$
1.45
$
1.59
$
1.04
$
1.28
$
1.26
$
1.82
$
1.06
$
1.40
$
1.19
$
1.01
$
1.68
$
1.09
$
1.09
$
1.13

Trade
Trade 2201
Trade 2202
Trade 2203
Trade 2204
Trade 2205

Restitution
Amount
$
1.33
$
1.17
$
1.07
$
2.02
$
3.84

CORRECTIVE ACTION STATEMENT
In connection with the issuance of the Letter of Acceptance, Waiver and Consent No.
2019060756501 (“AWC”), Robinhood Financial LLC (“RHF”) and Robinhood Securities, LLC
(“RHS”) (together, the “Firms,” or the “Respondents”) submit this statement describing certain
of the actions taken with respect to the issues described in the AWC. 1
As described below, the Firms and their parent company, Robinhood Markets, Inc. (collectively,
“Robinhood”), have undertaken extensive remedial measures to address the issues identified in
the AWC. In addition, in connection with RHF’s June 30, 2021 settlement with FINRA (the
“2021 AWC”) settlement, RHF retained an independent consultant to “conduct a comprehensive
review of the adequacy of [RHF’s] compliance” with seven different areas of its business,
including the review of retail communications, anti-money laundering, and customer
identification programs during the period August 1, 2020 through August 17, 2021. Robinhood
implemented numerous enhancements at the recommendation of the independent compliance
consultant (“ICC”), several of which are included in the descriptions below.
● Changes to collaring practice and related disclosures: RHF’s customer agreement,
use and risk disclosures, and website “Help Center” articles contained disclosures about
the collaring practice beginning in June 2014 and continuing through October 2021. At
times, as reflected in the AWC, these disclosures did not always accurately and
completely reflect changes that RHF made to its collaring practice. RHF aligned those
disclosures with its practices and has enhanced its supervision of the communications
with the public process. RHF’s supervisory system for supervising communications with
customers was the subject of the ICC’s review ordered in the 2021 AWC, which provided
its recommendations in December 2021. In connection with the ICC’s recommendations,
RHF (among other things) updated its training and guidance related to changes to
communications with the public, implemented regular sample-based reviews of
communications with the public to confirm principal approval, updated its procedures for
identifying outdated or expired communications with the public, conducted a risk-based
review of active communications, and implemented a regularly-scheduled review of its
customer agreements. In 2023, RHF discontinued its collaring practice by modifying its
default order types and their corresponding disclosures. Beginning in the third quarter of
2024, RHF began rolling out non-collared market buy orders to customers under specific
disclosed circumstances.
● Enhancements to Robinhood’s anti-money laundering (“AML”) program:
Beginning in 2021, Robinhood substantially enhanced the AML program used by both
This Corrective Action Statement is submitted by the Respondents. It does not constitute
factual or legal findings by FINRA, nor does it reflect the views of FINRA, or its staff.
1

1

Firms. Robinhood retained a consultant to review relevant procedures; upgraded the
technology; revised and implemented new procedures for investigating and reporting
suspicious activity; implemented additional trainings and guidance for relevant
personnel; increased the size of the staff; hired more experienced managers for key roles
such as AML surveillance, financial crimes governance and quality control, model
validation and analytics and AML investigations, as well as other personnel with relevant
experience to investigate suspicious activity; implemented a new system for tracking and
managing investigations; and implemented new transaction surveillance and onboarding
systems. Robinhood’s Financial Crimes department reviews and investigates suspicious
activity alerts, using its upgraded surveillance, tracking, and case management
technology.
● Enhancements to Robinhood’s Customer Identification Program (“CIP”):
Beginning in August 2020 and continuing through the end of 2020, RHF conducted a
comprehensive review of its onboarding program. In November 2021, RHF implemented
new vendors and strengthened logic for identity verification. RHF also re-verified the
identities of certain customers who had been approved based on previous automated
processes. The ICC engaged in connection with the 2021 AWC reviewed RHF’s CIP,
including the tailoring of the CIP to RHF’s business, oversight of the CIP, written
policies and procedures, systems and tools, and onboarding and escalation processes.
The ICC submitted its observations and recommendations in December 2021, after the
end date of the Relevant Period in this AWC. RHF subsequently implemented all of the
recommendations from the ICC.
● Enhanced supervision of clearing broker technology: Beginning in February 2021,
RHS continued implementing improvements to its clearing system, which has included
taking numerous steps to remediate “runner lag” and its possible effects and increasing
the clearing system’s capacity on multiple fronts. RHS has also made significant
improvements in reducing the runtime for batch by optimizing the engineering
components and aspects of the process. The Brokerage Engineering team, which is
responsible for the clearing system, reports (including the escalation of any issues) to the
registered Vice President of Engineering, who himself reports to the Chief Brokerage
Officer. RHS also established a Risk and Operating Committee consisting of registered
principals responsible for overseeing risk exposures to operations, compliance, and
technology. Identified technology issues impacting RHS’s brokerage operations are
escalated to designated principals and are reported to the Risk and Operating Committee
for oversight.
● Enhanced supervision of associated persons to achieve compliance with FINRA
registration requirements: In July 2021, RHF and RHS restructured their supervisory
processes to limit active engagement in or direct responsibility over the management of

2

the Firms to appropriate registered Principals or Operations Professionals. Both RHF and
RHS implemented Boards of Managers and key committees composed of registered
principals responsible for the supervision of the broker-dealers. In August 2022, the
Firms transitioned their organizational structure to a General Manager model in which an
experienced registered Chief Brokerage Officer, who reports directly to the CEO of the
parent company, oversees both broker-dealers.
● Enhanced supervision of trading in associated persons’ accounts: Beginning in 2021,
the Firms initiated a comprehensive review of their associated person designations. Since
that time, RHF and RHS have expanded the scope of their surveillance to include all
associated persons identified in these reviews. The Firms, furthermore, conduct weekly
reviews and validations, as well as an annual review, to confirm appropriate associated
person designations and potential expansions. The Firms have also significantly
upgraded the technology, including by implementing a comprehensive enterprise-level
compliance monitoring technology solution, and developing a control room, which has
strengthened their review and surveillance of, among other things, associated person
brokerage accounts, including the disclosure and monitoring of outside brokerage
accounts.
● Cessation of affiliate influencer program: RHF terminated the affiliate influencer
program described in the AWC in March 2023.
● Changes to ACATS processing: Between March 2020 and July 2022, RHS discontinued
its practice of rejecting customers’ requests to transfer all of their assets under the
conditions described in the AWC.
● Enhanced supervision of required delivery of account documentation: Beginning in
February 2022, RHF took steps to address the specific delivery failures described in the
AWC, such as sending in-app messages and paper disclosures to customers for whom the
firm received an email bounceback for certain mailings. It also took steps to update its
supervisory system to address the issue. Since identifying and self-reporting broader
issues with email bounce backs in 2023, RHF has implemented a system and engaged a
third-party vendor for sending physical mail after receiving an email bounce back and to
assist in monitoring return-to-sender physical mail.
● Enhanced supervision of trade, order and position data reporting: RHS has
remediated all of the Electronic Blue Sheets (“EBS”), Trade Reporting Facility (“TRF”),
Large Options Position Report (“LOPR”) and Consolidated Audit Trail (“CAT”)
reporting issues identified in the AWC on a go-forward basis. RHF also enhanced its
supervision of origin codes by implementing a quarterly process to identify Professional
Customers and verify that the appropriate FIX tag is applied to orders. After determining
in 2021 that RHS had short interest positions to report, RHS created a short interest

3

reporting process to properly upload all reportable short interest. RHS has enhanced its
EBS, CAT, LOPR and TRF reporting supervisory processes to include: (1) more robust
periodic sample testing to confirm trade information was submitted accurately and
timely; (2) maintenance of tracking logs or checklists to monitor submissions; (3)
designated principal review of tracking logs or checklists; (4) escalation of material
reporting issues to a designated principal; and (5) enhanced processes for data validation
and quality assurance. RHS also has built out additional control frameworks to achieve
accuracy, completeness, and consistency across its trade reporting systems, including
internal dashboards and risk metrics. It has also created a dedicated Regulatory
Reporting team and a dedicated regulatory reporting engineering team. RHS has
documented these improvements in updated EBS, TRF and CAT policies and procedures.
● Enhanced market volatility controls: In July 2022, RHS established a supervisory
system and written procedures to monitor trading halts and prevent executions during
trading halts. In July 2022, RHS also established a supervisory system and written
procedures to detect and correct transactions outside of the LULD bands, and modified its
surveillance for detecting and correcting transactions outside of LULD bands to include
late reported trades in August 2023.

4

