FINANCIAL INDUSTRY REGULATORY AUTHORITY
LETTER OF ACCEPTANCE, WAIVER, AND CONSENT
NO. 2019060753601
TO:

Department of Enforcement
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA)

RE :

Cova Capital Partners LLC (Respondent)
Member Firm
CRD No. 109761

Pursuant to FINRA Rule 9216, Respondent Cova Capital Partners LLC submits this Letter of
Acceptance, Waiver, and Consent (A WC) for the purpose of proposing a settlement of the
alleged rule violations described below. This A WC is submitted on the condition that, if
accepted, FINRA will not bring any future actions against Respondent alleging violations based
on the same factual findings described in this A WC.

I.
ACCEPTANCE AND CONSENT
A.

Respondent accepts and consents to the following findings by FINRA without admitting
or denying them :

BACKGROUND
Cova has been a FINRA member since July 2001 . The firm has 10 registered
representatives and one branch office in Syosset, New York. Its primary business lines
include private placements, private investments in public equity, and retail sales of equity
securities. 1

OVERVIEW
Between June 2018 and December 2021, Cova recommended three private placements to
retail customers without conducting due diligence sufficient to form a reasonable basis to
believe that the offerings were suitable for or in the best interests of at least some
investors. As a result, Cova willfully violated Rule 151-1 (a)(l) under the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934 (Regulation Best Interest or Reg BI) and violated FINRA Rules
2111 and 2010.
Additionally, between June 2018 and December 2023 , Cova failed to establish, maintain,
and enforce a supervisory system, including written policies and procedures, reasonably
designed to achieve compliance with its suitability and best interest obligations in
connection with its sale of private placement offerings. As a result, Cova willfully
1

For more information about the firm , including prior regulatory events, visit BrokerCheck® at
www.finra.org/brokercheck.

violated Reg Bi's Compliance Obligation and violated FINRA Rules 3110 and 2010.
Cova also violated FINRA Rules 5123 and 2010 by failing to make a timely filing in
connection with one private placement offering.

FACTS AND VIOLATIVE CONDUCT
This matter originated from reviews conducted by FINRA's Department of Member
Supervision and FINRA's Department of Corporate Financing.

A. Cova recommended three private placements to its customers without
conducting reasonable due diligence and without satisfying its suitability and
best interest obligations.
As of June 30, 2020, broker-dealers and their associated persons are required to comply
with Regulation Best Interest. Rule 15/-l(a)(l) of Reg BI requires a broker, dealer, or a
natural person associated with a broker or dealer, when making a recommendation of any
securities transaction or investment strategy involving securities (including account
recommendations) to a retail customer, to act in the best interest of that retail customer at
the time the recommendation is made, without placing the financial or other interest of
the broker, dealer, or associated person ahead of the interest of the retail customer.
Reg Bi's Care Obligation, set forth at Exchange Act Rule 15/-l(a)(2)(ii), requires brokerdealers and their associated persons to exercise reasonable diligence, care, and skill to,
among other things, understand the potential risks, rewards, and costs associated with a
recommendation. Reg Bi's Adopting Release provides that what constitutes "reasonable
diligence" depends on, among other things, the complexity of, and risks associated with,
the recommended security. 2 The Care Obligation requires broker-dealers and their
associated persons to have a reasonable basis to believe that the recommendation could
be in the best interest of at least some retail investors.
Prior to June 30, 2020, FINRA Rule 211 l required members and associated persons to
have a reasonable basis to believe that a recommendation of a transaction or investment
strategy involving a security or securities to any customer is suitable for the customer.
FINRA Rule 2111 is still in effect, but as of June 30, 2020, it no longer applies to
recommendations that are subject to Reg BI. Rule 211 l.05(a) defines the reasonablebasis obligation to require members and their associated persons to have an
understanding of the potential risks and rewards associated with the recommended
security or strategy and to have a reasonable basis to believe, based on reasonable
diligence, that the recommendation is suitable for at least some investors.
Regulatory Notice 10-22 reminded firms of their obligation to conduct a reasonable
investigation of the issuer and the securities they recommend in connection with private
2

Regulation Best interest: The Broker-Deafer Standard of Conduct, Exchange Act Release No. 86031 , 84 FR 33318
at 33376 (July 12, 2019).

2

placements. To satisfy its obligations, a firm should conduct a reasonable investigation
of, among others, the issuer and its management and the assets held or to be acquired by
the issuer. 3
A violation of Reg Bl and FINRA Rule 2111 is also a violation ofFINRA Rule 2010,
which requires member firms to "observe high standards of commercial honor and just
and equitable principles of trade" in the conduct of their business.
During the relevant period, Cova failed to conduct reasonable due diligence before
recommending three private placement offerings to retail customers and thus did not have
a reasonable basis to believe these offerings were suitable for and in the best interests of
at least some investors.
Between June 2018 and February 2020, Cova sold nine investors more than $2 million of
a private placement offering by Issuer 1, which purported to offer pre-initial public
offering (pre-IPO) shares of Company A (Offering 1). Before selling Offering 1 to these
investors, Cova failed to take reasonable steps to confirm that Issuer 1 in fact possessed
rights to the shares of Company A, even though acquiring an interest in such shares was
the sole purpose of investing in Offering 1. Moreover, despite knowing that Issuer 1
applied markups to the pre-IPO shares-in other words, the issuer charged a higher price
to investors than the issuer paid to acquire the shares-Cova did not take reasonable steps
to determine the amount of the markups applied by Issuer l to the shares of Company A.
As a result, at the time Cova recommended Offering 1 to its customers, the firm had no
reasonable basis to believe that Issuer l had access to or possession of the pre-IPO shares
identified in the offering documents, or that Issuer 1's markups were reasonable and
properly disclosed .4
Between October 2019 and 2021, Cova sold 24 investors more than $1. 7 million of a
private placement offering by Issuer 2 (Offering 2). Before selling Offering 2 to these
investors, Cova failed to reasonably investigate Issuer 2's management and thus did not
identify that Issuer 2' s Chief Executive Officer was previously the subject of federal and
state regulatory actions related to illegal robocalls to senior consumers.
Between September 2021 and December 2021, Cova sold 49 investors more than $9
million of a private placement offering by Issuer 3, which purported to offer pre-IPO
shares of Company B (Offering 3). Before selling Offering 3 to these investors, Cova
3

Regulatory Notice 23-08 updates and supplements, without altering, the guidance provided in Regulatory Notice
10-22.

4

On May 13, 2022, the SEC filed a lawsuit in the Southern District of New York against Issuer 1 and its principals.
Among other things, the SEC alleged that Issuer I committed fraud by charging undisclosed, excessive markups and
not having enough pre-IPO shares to satisfy its sales to investors. On June 14, 2022, the court entered a stipulation
and consent order granting a preliminary injunction and other relief, including appointment of a receiver for the
Issuer. On November 28, 2023, the U.S. Attorney's Office for the Southern District of New York filed a criminal
case naming principals of the Issuer as defendants in a multi-count indictment including various felonies, including
fraud and conspiracy to obstruct justice.

3

failed to take reasonable steps to confirm that Issuer 3 in fact possessed rights to the
shares of Company B. Additionally, during its due diligence process, Cova failed to
investigate information concerning SEC charges filed against two individuals associated
with another pre-IPO fund from which Issuer 3 purported to source Company B shares.
By recommending to its customers three private offerings without conducting due
diligence sufficient to form a reasonable basis to believe that the recommendations were
suitable for and in the best interest of at least some investors, Cova willfully violated
Exchange Act Rule 15/-l(a)(l) and violated FINRA Rules 2111 and 2010.
B. Cova did not establish and maintain a reasonable supervisory system with
respect to private placement recommendations.

Reg Bi's Compliance Obligation, set forth at Exchange Act Rule 15/-l(a)(2)(iv), requires
broker-dealers to establish, maintain, and enforce written policies and procedures
reasonably designed to achieve compliance with Reg Bl, including the Care Obligation.
The Adopting Release provides that broker-dealers should consider the nature of that
firm's operations and how to design such policies and procedures to prevent violations
from occurring, detect violations that have occurred, and to correct promptly any
violations that have occurred. 5
FINRA Rule 3110 requires member firms to establish, maintain, and enforce a
supervisory system, including written procedures, to supervise the activities of each
associated person that is reasonably designed to achieve compliance with applicable
securities laws, regulations, and FINRA rules.
A violation of Reg BI and FINRA Rule 3110 is also a violation ofFINRA Rule 2010.
Between June 2018 and December 2023, Cova failed to establish, maintain, and enforce a
supervisory system, including written procedures, and as of June 30, 2020, written
policies and procedures pursuant to Reg BI, reasonably designed to achieve compliance
with its suitability and best interest obligations in connection with its recommendations of
private placements. Cova' s written procedures recited the general obligation to conduct
private placement due diligence and listed some steps registered representatives and
supervisors should take to investigate each offering. However, the procedures failed to
describe what documents and information should be collected as part of that
investigation. In addition, the procedures failed to identify the individuals responsible for
conducting, documenting, and reviewing the due diligence process and granting approval
for each offering. The procedures also listed some due diligence steps that were never
actually carried out in practice during the relevant period. As described above, Cova
failed to reasonably supervise the due diligence processes for Offerings 1, 2, and 3 in
order to ensure that the firm reasonably investigated each offering prior to its approval for
sale.

5

Adopting Release at 33397.

4

Through this conduct, Cova willfully violated Exchange Act Rule 15/-l(a)(l) and
violated FINRA Rules 3110 and 2010.
C. Cova made a late Rule 5123 filing.
FINRA Rule 5123(a) requires, among others, that each member that sells a private
placement submit to FINRA, or have submitted on its behalf, a copy of any private
placement memorandum, term sheet or other offering document used in connection with
such sale within 15 calendar days of the date of first sale. Rule 5123 was implemented to,
as described in FINRA Regulatory Notice 12-40, "enhance oversight and investor
protection" and provide "more timely and complete information about the private
placement activities of firms on behalf of other issuers." A violation of FINRA Rule 5123
is also a violation ofFINRA Rule 2010.
Cova approved Offering 1 and began soliciting investors in March 2018. The first
Offering 1 sale occurred in June 2018, but Cova did not make its required filing with
FINRA for Offering 1 until September 2019, over one year late.
Therefore, Cova violated FINRA Rules 5123 and 2010.
B.

Respondent also consents to the imposition of the following sanctions:
■

a censure;

■

a $30,000 fine; and

■

an undertaking that, within 60 days of the date of the notice of acceptance of this
A WC, a member of Respondent' s senior management who is a registered
principal of the firm shall certify in writing that, as of the date of the certification,
the firm has remediated the issues identified in this A WC and implemented a
supervisory system, including written supervisory procedures, reasonably
designed to achieve compliance with Reg BI's Care Obligation regarding the
issues identified in this AWC. The certification shall include a narrative
description and supporting exhibits sufficient to demonstrate Respondent's
remediation and implementation. FINRA staff may request further evidence of
Respondent's remediation and implementation, and Respondent agrees to provide
such evidence. Respondent shall submit the certification to Evan Ennis, Principal
Counsel , 581 Main St. #710, Woodbridge, NJ 07095, evan.ennis@finra.org, with
a copy to EnforcementNotice@finra.org. Upon written request showing good
cause, FINRA staff may extend this deadline.

Respondent agrees to pay the monetary sanction upon notice that this A WC has been
accepted and that such payment is due and payable. Respondent has submitted an
Election of Payment form showing the method by which it proposes to pay the fine
imposed.

5

Respondent specifically and voluntarily waives any right to claim an inability to pay, now
or at any time after the execution of this A WC, the monetary sanction imposed in thi s
matter.
Respondent understands that this settlement includes a finding that it willfully violated
Exchange Act Rule 15/-1 (a)( l) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and that under
Article III, Section 4 of FINRA ' s By-Laws, this makes Respondent subject to a statutory
disqualification with respect to membership.
The sanctions imposed in this A WC shall be effective on a date set by FINRA.
II.
W AIYER OF PROCEDURAL RIGHTS
Respondent specifically and voluntarily waives the following rights granted under FINRA' s
Code of Procedure:
A.

To have a complaint issued specifying the allegations against it;

B.

To be notified of the complaint and have the opportunity to answer the allegations
in writing;

C.

To defend against the allegations in a disciplinary hearing before a hearing panel,
to have a written record of the hearing made, and to have a written decision
issued; and

D.

To appeal any such decision to the National Adjudicatory Council (NAC) and
then to the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission and a U.S. Court of
Appeals.

Further, Respondent specifically and voluntarily waives any right to claim bias or prejudgment
of the Chief Legal Officer, the NAC, or any member of the NAC, in connection with such
person ' s or body ' s participation in discussions regarding the te1ms and conditions of this A WC,
or other consideration of this A WC, including its acceptance or rejection.
Respondent further specifically and voluntarily waives any right to claim that a person violated
the ex parte prohibitions of FINRA Rule 9143 or the separation of functions prohibitions of
FINRA Rule 9144, in connection with such person ' s or body ' s participation in discussions
regarding the terms and conditions of this AWC, or other consideration of this A WC, including
its acceptance or rejection.

6

III.
OTHER MATTERS
Respondent understands that:
A.

Submission of this A WC is voluntary and will not resolve this matter unless and
until it has been reviewed and accepted by the NAC, a Review Subcommittee of
the NAC, or the Office of Disciplinary Affairs (ODA), pursuant to FINRA Rule
9216;

B.

If this A WC is not accepted, its submission will not be used as evidence to prove
any of the allegations against Respondent; and

C.

If accepted:

D.

1.

this A WC will become part of Respondent's permanent disciplinary
record and may be considered in any future action brought by FINRA or
any other regulator against Respondent;

2.

this A WC will be made available through FINRA' s public disclosure
program in accordance with FINRA Rule 8313;

3.

FINRA may make a public announcement concerning this agreement and
its subject matter in accordance with FINRA Rule 8313 ; and

4.

Respondent may not take any action or make or permit to be made any
public statement, including in regulatory filings or otherwise, denying,
directly or indirectly, any finding in this A WC or create the impression
that the A WC is without factual basis. Respondent may not take any
position in any proceeding brought by or on behalf of FINRA, or to which
FlNRA is a party, that is inconsistent with any part of this A WC. Nothing
in this provision affects Respondent's right to take legal or factual
positions in litigation or other legal proceedings in which FINRA is not a
party. Nothing in this provision affects Respondent' s testimonial
obligations in any litigation or other legal proceedings.

Respondent may attach a corrective action statement to this A WC that is a
statement of demonstrable corrective steps taken to prevent future misconduct.
Respondent understands that it may not deny the charges or make any statement
that is inconsistent with the A WC in this statement. This statement does not
constitute factual or legal findings by FINRA, nor does it reflect the views of
FINRA."

The undersigned, on behalf of Respondent, certifies that a person duly authorized to act on
Respondent's behalf has read and understands all of the provisions of this A WC and has been
7

gi en o full opportunity to a k que tion about it; that Respondent has agreed to the AWC's
pro i ion voluntnrily; nnd th111 no offer, threat, induccmcnL, or promise of any kind, other than
th ' tcnn et forth in thi AWC nnd the prospect of avoiding the issuance of a complaint. has
been mode to induce Re pondcnt 10 submit this A WC.

Respondent

Title: -~=--...:;,.~_,C)=----- - - -

Counsel fo r

spondent

68 South Service Road - Suite 100
Melville, NY 11747

Accepted by FTNRA:
Signed on behalf of the
Director of ODA, by delegated authority

February 14, 2025
Date

Evan Ennis
Principal Counsel
FlNRA
Deportment of Enforcement
58 1 Main St. #710
Woodbridge, NJ 07095

8

