FINANCIAL INDUSTRY REGULATORY AUTHORITY
LETTER OF ACCEPTANCE, WAIVER, AND CONSENT
NO. 2019061852801
TO:

Department of Enforcement
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA)

RE:

Haywood Securities (USA) Inc. (Respondent)
Member Firm
CRD No. 42072

Pursuant to FINRA Rule 9216, Respondent Haywood Securities (USA) Inc. ("Haywood USA")
submits this Letter of Acceptance, Waiver, and Consent (AWC) for the purpose of proposing a
settlement of the alleged rule violations described below. This A WC is submitted on the
condition that, if accepted, FINRA will not bring any future actions against Respondent alleging
violations based on the same factual findings described in this A WC.

I.
ACCEPTANCE AND CONSENT
A.

Respondent accepts and consents to the following findings by FINRA without admitting
or denying them:

BACKGROUND
Haywood USA has been a FINRA member since October 1997. It is a wholly owned
subsidiary of Haywood Securities, Inc., a Canadian investment dealer. The firm conducts
a general securities business. It is headquartered in Vancouver, British Columbia and has
I 06 registered representatives in three branches in Canada. 1

OVERVIEW
From September 2014 through the present, Haywood USA recommended 134 sales
totaling almost $11 million of 53 different private placements to U.S. customers without
conducting reasonable due diligence of the issuers and the offerings. Therefore, from
September 2014 until June 30, 2020, the firm failed to establish, maintain, and enforce a
supervisory system, reasonably designed to achieve compliance with FINRA Rule 2111,
in violation ofFINRA Rules 3110 and 2010 and NASO Rule 3010. 2 From June 30, 2020,
to the present, the firm failed to establish, maintain, and enforce a supervisory system
reasonably designed to achieve compliance with Regulation Best Interest (Reg BI), in
violation ofFINRA Rules 3110 and 2010.

1

For more information about the firm, including prior regulatory events, visit BrokerCheck® at
www.finra.org/brokercheck.
2

FINRA Rule 3110 superseded NASO Rule 30 IO on December I, 2014.

In addition, from September 2014 to February 2023, Haywood USA failed to file offering
documents with FINRA in connection with 236 Canadian private placement offerings in
violation of FIN RA Rules 5123 and 2010.
FACTS AND VIOLATIVE CONDUCT
This matter originated from a referral by FINRA's Corporate Financing Department.

A.

Member firms must conduct reasonable due diligence of private placement
offerings.

As of June 30, 2020, broker-dealers and their associated persons are required to comply
with Regulation BI under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Reg BI requires a broker
or, dealer, or a natural person associated with a broker or dealer, when making a
recommendation of any securities transaction or investment strategy involving securities
(including account recommendations) to a retail customer, to act in the best interest of
that retail customer at the time the recommendation is made, without placing the financial
or other interest of the broker, dealer, or associated person ahead of the interest of the
retail customer. Reg Bi's Care Obligation, set forth at Exchange Act Rule 151-l(a)(2)(ii),
requires broker-dealers and their associated persons to exercise reasonable diligence,
care, and skill to, among other things, understand the potential risks, rewards, and costs
associated with a recommendation. Reg Bi's Adopting Release provides that what
constitutes "reasonable diligence" depends on, among other things, the complexity of,
and risks associated with, the recommended security. 3 The Care Obligation requires
broker-dealers and their associated persons to have a reasonable basis to believe that the
recommendation could be in the best interest of at least some retail customers.
Prior to June 30, 2020, FINRA Rule 2111 required members and associated persons to
have a reasonable basis to believe that a recommended transaction or investment strategy
involving a security or securities is suitable for the customer. Rule 2111.0S(a) defined the
reasonable-basis obligation to require members and their associated persons to have an
understanding of the potential risks and rewards associated with the recommended
security or strategy and to have a reasonable basis to believe, based on reasonable
diligence, that the recommendation is suitable for at least some investors.
FIN RA Rule 3110- and its predecessor NASO Rule 30 l 0- requires member firms to
establish, maintain, and enforce a supervisory system, including written procedures, to
supervise the activities of each associated person that is reasonably designed to achieve
compliance with applicable securities laws, regulations, and FINRA rules.
Violations of FINRA Rule 3110 are also violations of FIN RA Rule 2010, which requires
member firms to "observe high standards of commercial honor and just and equitable
principles of trade" in the conduct of their business.

3

Regulation Best Interest: The Broker-Dea/er Standard of Conduct, Exchange Act Release No. 86031 , 84 FR 33318
at 33376 (July 12, 2019).

2

As it relates specifically to private placement securities offerings made under Regulation
D, FIN RA issued Regulatory Notice 10-22 (April 20, 2010) to remind firms of their
obligation to conduct a reasonable investigation of the issuer and the securities they
recommend in connection with such offerings. Firms may not rely solely upon the issuer
for information concerning the issuer and while firms are not expected to have the same
knowledge as an issuer or its management, they are required to conduct a reasonable
investigation that independently verifies an issuer's material representations and claims.
To satisfy its obligations, a firm should, at a minimum, conduct a reasonable
investigation of the issuer and its management; the business prospects of the issuer; the
assets held by or to be acquired by the issuer; the claims being made; and the intended
use of proceeds of the offering. Furthermore, to demonstrate that it has performed a
reasonable investigation, a firm should retain records documenting both the process and
results of its investigation. FINRA recently issued Regulatory Notice 23-08 (May 9,
2023) to reiterate and expand upon these principles.

B.

Haywood USA failed to conduct reasonable diligence of 53 Canadian private
placement offerings.

From September 2014 to the present, Haywood USA has recommended sales to U.S.
customers of a certain type of Canadian private placement offering referred to as "nonbrokered private placements" (NBPPs), which are offerings in which the firm or its
parent do not serve as agent of the issuer but rather act as a "finder" that introduces
investors to the issuer. Between September 2014 and February 2023, Haywood USA
recommended 134 sales to U.S. customers totaling almost $ 11 million of 53 different
Canadian NBPPs.
Haywood USA generally did not conduct due diligence ofNBPPs beyond a search and
review of the issuer's recent public filings. To the extent the firm obtained any
information from the issuer, Haywood USA generally sought minimal information and
relied mostly on the issuer with little to no independent verification. Generally, the firm
did not conduct any independent investigation, such as inquiring about past or pending
litigation or disciplinary problems, reviewing the issuer's key contracts, exploring the
issuer's business plan, or conducting a site visit. The firm's written supervisory
procedures required that the firm's due diligence ofNBPPs include, among other things,
a search of the regulatory history of the issuer's officers and directors, and that its staff
maintain a record and evidence of the due diligence conducted. Haywood USA, however,
did not generally conduct a search of such regulatory history, nor did it generally
maintain evidence or documentation of its due diligence for NBPPs, including of any
searches of public filings.
By failing, from September 2014 until June 30, 2020, to establish, maintain, and enforce
a supervisory system reasonably designed to achieve compliance with FINRA Rule 2111,
Haywood USA violated FINRA Rules 3110 and 2010 and NASO Rule 3010. And by
failing to establish and maintain a supervisory system reasonably designed to achieve
compliance with Reg BI from June 30, 2020, to the present, the firm violated FINRA
Rules 31 10 and 2010.

3

C.

Haywood USA failed to file offering documents with FINRA.

FINRA Rule 5123(a) requires each member that sells a private placement to "submit to
FINRA ... a copy of any private placement memorandum, term sheet or other offering
document, including any materially amended versions thereof, used in connection with
such sale within 15 calendar days of the date of first sale." FIN RA Rule 5 I 23(b) sets
forth specific exemptions from Rule 5 I 23. FIN RA guidance explains that "a member
firm acting in the capacity of ... finder or any other role that promotes or facilitates the
sale or offer of private placements must make a filing, unless an exemption from filing is
available." 4 A violation of FINRA Rule 5123 is also a violation of FINRA Rule 2010.
From September 2014 to February 2023, Haywood USA did not make a FINRA Rule
5123 filing in connection with sales of236 Canadian NBPPs. The firm's policy was to
not make such filings when the sale transactions for an offering were unsolicited and the
firm did not receive a finder's fee from the issuer. The offerings, however, did not qualify
for any exemption under FINRA Rule 5 I 23(b).
Therefore, by failing to make the required filings for 236 private placement offerings,
Haywood USA violated FIN RA Rules 5123 and 20 I 0.
B.

Respondent also consents to the imposition of the following sanctions:

•

a censure;

•

a $175,000 fine; and

•

an undertaking that, within 60 days of the date of the notice of acceptance of this
A WC, a member of Respondent's senior management who is a registered
principal of the firm shall certify in writing that, as of the date of the certification,
the firm has remediated the issues identified in this A WC and implemented a
supervisory system, including written procedures, reasonably designed to achieve
compliance with Regulation BI regarding the issues identified in this A WC. The
certification shall include a narrative description and supporting exhibits
sufficient to demonstrate Respondent's remediation and implementation. FINRA
staff may request further evidence of Respondent's remediation and
implementation, and Respondent agrees to provide such evidence. Respondent
shall submit the certification to Jeffrey E. Baldwin, Senior Counsel, at 1601
Market Street, Suite 2700, Philadelphia, PA I 9 I 03 and/or
Jeffrey.Baldwin@finra.org, with a copy to EnforcementNotice@finra.org. Upon
written request showing good cause, FINRA staff may extend this deadline.

Respondent agrees to pay the monetary sanction upon notice that this A WC has been
accepted and that such payment is due and payable. Respondent has submitted an
Election of Payment form showing the method by which it proposes to pay the fine
imposed.

4

https://www.finra.org/rules-guidance/key-topics/private-placements/filing-guidance (Section 2.2).

4

Respondent specifically and voluntarily waives any right to claim an inability to pay, now
or at any time after the execution of this A WC, the monetary sanction imposed in this
matter.
The sanctions imposed in this A WC shall be effective on a date set by FINRA.

II.
WAIVER OF PROCEDURAL RIGHTS
Respondent specifically and voluntarily waives the following rights granted under FINRA's
Code of Procedure:
A.

To have a complaint issued specifying the allegations against it;

B.

To be notified of the complaint and have the opportunity to answer the allegations
in writing;

C.

To defend against the allegations in a disciplinary hearing before a hearing panel,
to have a written record of the hearing made, and to have a written decision
issued; and

D.

To appeal any such decision to the National Adjudicatory Council (NAC) and
then to the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission and a U.S. Court of
Appeals.

Further, Respondent specifically and voluntarily waives any right to claim bias or prejudgment
of the Chief Legal Officer, the NAC, or any member of the NAC, in connection with such
person's or body's participation in discussions regarding the terms and conditions of this A WC,
or other consideration of this A WC, including its acceptance or rejection.
Respondent further specifically and voluntarily waives any right to claim that a person violated
the ex parte prohibitions of FINRA Rule 9143 or the separation of functions prohibitions of
FINRA Rule 9144, in connection with such person's or body's participation in discussions
regarding the terms and conditions of this AWC, or other consideration of this AWC, including
its acceptance or rejection.

III.
OTHER MATTERS
Respondent understands that:
A.

Submission of this AWC is voluntary and will not resolve this matter unless and
until it has been reviewed and accepted by the NAC, a Review Subcommittee of
the NAC, or the Office of Disciplinary Affairs (ODA), pursuant to FINRA Rule
9216;

5

B.

If this A WC is not accepted, its submission will not be used as evidence to prove
any of the allegations against Respondent; and

C.

If accepted:

D.

1.

this A WC will become part of Respondent's permanent disciplinary
record and may be considered in any future action brought by FINRA or
any other regulator against Respondent;

2.

this AWC will be made available through FINRA's public disclosure
program in accordance with FINRA Rule 8313;

3.

FINRA may make a public announcement concerning this agreement and
its subject matter in accordance with FINRA Rule 8313; and

4.

Respondent may not take any action or make or permit to be made any
public statement, including in regulatory filings or otherwise, denying,
directly or indirectly, any finding in this A WC or create the impression
that the A WC is without factual basis. Respondent may not take any
position in any proceeding brought by or on behalf of FINRA, or to which
FfNRA is a party, that is inconsistent with any part of this AWC. Nothing
in this provision affects Respondent's right to take legal or factual
positions in litigation or other legal proceedings in which FINRA is not a
party. Nothing in this provision affects Respondent's testimonial
obligations in any litigation or other legal proceedings.

Respondent may attach a corrective action statement to this A WC that is a
statement of demonstrable corrective steps taken to prevent future misconduct.
Respondent understands that it may not deny the charges or make any statement
that is inconsistent with the A WC in this statement. This statement does not
constitute factual or legal findings by FINRA, nor does it reflect the views of
FINRA.

6

11/13/2023

