FINANCIAL INDUSTRY REGULATORY AUTHORITY
LETTER OF ACCEPTANCE, WAIVER, AND CONSENT
NO. 2020068655901
TO:

Department of Enforcement
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA)

RE:

Kyle William Chapman (Respondent)
Former General Securities Representative
CRD No. 6303483

Pursuant to FINRA Rule 9216, Respondent Kyle William Chapman submits this Letter of
Acceptance, Waiver, and Consent (AWC) for the purpose of proposing a settlement of the
alleged rule violations described below. This AWC is submitted on the condition that, if
accepted, FINRA will not bring any future actions against Respondent alleging violations based
on the same factual findings described in this AWC.
I.
ACCEPTANCE AND CONSENT
A.

Respondent accepts and consents to the following findings by FINRA without admitting
or denying them:
BACKGROUND
Chapman first became registered with FINRA in 2014 through an association with a
member firm. From August 2018 to October 2020, Chapman was associated with
WestPark Capital, Inc. (CRD No. 39914), through which he was registered with FINRA
as a General Securities Representative and Investment Company and Variable Contracts
Products Representative. Chapman again registered with FINRA as a General Securities
Representative and Investment Company and Variable Contracts Products Representative
from November 2020 to July 2022, through an association with American Trust
Investment Services, Inc. (CRD No. 3001).
On July 8, 2022, American Trust filed a Uniform Termination Notice for Securities
Industry Registration (Form U5), disclosing that Chapman had voluntarily terminated his
association with the firm. On December 12, 2022, American Trust filed an amended
Form U5, disclosing that Chapman was the subject of a customer arbitration alleging
various causes of action related to GWG L Bonds.
Although Chapman is not currently registered or associated with any FINRA member
firm, he remains subject to FINRA’s jurisdiction pursuant to Article V, Section 4 of
FINRA’s By-Laws. 1

1

For more information about the respondent, visit BrokerCheck® at www finra.org/brokercheck.

OVERVIEW
In January and December 2020, Chapman recommended that a retail customer invest a
total of $50,000 in GWG L Bonds—a speculative, unrated debt security—after the
customer reached out to Chapman about investing in the security. Chapman did not have
a reasonable basis to recommend these investments, and his recommendations were
neither in the customer’s best interest nor suitable, in light of the customer’s investment
profile. Therefore, Chapman willfully violated Rule 15l-1(a)(1) under the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934 (Regulation BI or Reg BI) (for the period on and after June 30,
2020), and violated FINRA Rule 2111 (for the period before June 30, 2020) and FINRA
Rule 2010.
In addition, in January and December 2020, in response to the customer’s inquiries,
Chapman made negligent misrepresentations and omissions of material fact in connection
with his sales to the customer of GWG L Bonds. As a result, Chapman violated FINRA
Rule 2010, both independently and in contravention of Section 17(a)(2) of the Securities
Act of 1933.
FACTS AND VIOLATIVE CONDUCT
This matter originated from a FINRA cause examination.
A.

GWG Holdings, Inc.

GWG Holdings, Inc. is a publicly-traded financial services company. Prior to 2018,
GWG purchased life insurance policies through its subsidiaries on the secondary market.
GWG continued to pay the premiums for each policy that it purchased and collected the
policy benefits upon the insured’s death. Following a series of transactions in 2018 and
2019 with Beneficient Company Group, L.P., GWG reoriented its business, stopped
acquiring life insurance policies, and focused instead on developing a business model of
providing liquidity to holders of illiquid investments and alternative assets.
GWG had a history of net losses and had not generated sufficient operating and investing
cash flows to fund its operations. To finance its operations, GWG offered corporate
bonds (known as L Bonds) to investors with varying maturity periods and interest rates. L
Bonds were not directly secured by GWG’s life insurance portfolio and were not rated by
any bond rating agency.
GWG sold L Bonds to retail investors in four separate offerings and made those sales
through a network of broker-dealers, including WestPark and American Trust, which
entered into agreements with GWG to sell L Bonds in July 2016 and January 2019,
respectively. The offering documents for the third and fourth L Bond offerings, which
commenced in December 2017 and June 2020, stated that the bonds could be considered
speculative, involved a high degree of risk, were illiquid, and were only suitable for
persons with substantial financial resources and with no need for liquidity.

2

In January 2022, after Chapman’s customer made investments in the L Bonds, GWG
defaulted on its obligations to L Bond investors and suspended further sales of L Bonds.
In April 2022, GWG filed for bankruptcy.
B.

Chapman did not have a reasonable basis to recommend GWG L Bonds.

As of June 30, 2020, broker-dealers and their associated persons are required to comply
with Regulation BI under the Securities Exchange Act. Rule 15l-1(a)(1) of Reg BI
requires a broker, dealer, or a natural person associated with a broker or dealer, when
making a recommendation of any securities transaction or investment strategy involving
securities (including account recommendations) to a retail customer, to act in the best
interest of that retail customer at the time the recommendation is made, without placing
the financial or other interest of the broker, dealer, or associated person ahead of the
interest of the retail customer. Reg BI’s Care Obligation, set forth at Exchange Act Rule
15l-1(a)(2)(ii), requires broker-dealers and their associated persons to exercise reasonable
diligence, care, and skill to, among other things, understand the potential risks, rewards,
and costs associated with a recommendation. Reg BI’s Adopting Release provides that
what constitutes “reasonable diligence” depends on, among other things, the complexity
of, and risks associated with, the recommended security. 2 The Care Obligation requires
broker-dealers and their associated persons to have a reasonable basis to believe that the
recommendation could be in the best interest of at least some retail investors.
Reg BI’s Care Obligation further requires broker-dealers and their associated persons to
exercise reasonable diligence, care, and skill to, among other things, have a reasonable
basis to believe that the recommendation is in the best interest of a particular retail
customer based on that retail customer’s investment profile and the potential risks,
rewards, and costs associated with the recommendation. Regulation BI defines a “retail
customer investment profile” to include, but not be limited to, the customer’s age, other
investments, financial situation and needs, tax status, investment objectives, investment
experience, investment time horizon, liquidity needs, risk tolerance, and any other
information the customer may disclose to the member or associated person in connection
with such recommendation. Reg BI’s Adopting Release further provides that what is in
the best interest of a retail customer depends on the facts and circumstances of the
recommendation, including “matching” the recommended security to the retail
customer’s investment profile. Where the “match” between the retail customer profile
and the recommendation appears less reasonable, it is more important for the associated
person to establish that he or she had a reasonable belief that the recommendation was in
the best interest of the retail customer. 3 Finally, the Adopting Release provides that, in
addition to “matching” the recommendation to the customer’s suitability profile, an
associated person should also exercise reasonable diligence, care, and skill to consider
reasonably available alternatives. 4
Regulation Best Interest: The Broker-Dealer Standard of Conduct, Exchange Act Release No. 86031, 84 FR 33318
at 33376 (July 12, 2019).
2

3

Adopting Release at 33382.

4

Adopting Release at 33381.

3

Prior to June 30, 2020, FINRA Rule 2111 required members and associated persons to
have a reasonable basis to believe that a recommendation of a transaction or investment
strategy involving a security or securities to any customer: (1) is suitable for the
customer; and (2) is suitable based on the information obtained through the reasonable
diligence of the member or associated person to ascertain the customer’s investment
profile. FINRA Rule 2111 is still in effect, but as of June 30, 2020, it no longer applies to
recommendations that are subject to Reg BI. Rule 2111.05(a) defines the reasonablebasis obligation to require members and their associated persons to have an
understanding of the potential risks and rewards associated with the recommended
security or strategy and to have a reasonable basis to believe, based on reasonable
diligence, that the recommendation is suitable for at least some investors. Moreover,
FINRA Rule 2111 defines a customer’s investment profile to include the same
information as under the Care Obligation.
A violation of Reg BI or FINRA Rule 2111 also is a violation of FINRA Rule 2010,
which requires associated persons to “observe high standards of commercial honor and
just and equitable principles of trade” in the conduct of their business.
In January and December 2020, after a customer reached out to Chapman about investing
in GWG L Bonds, Chapman failed to perform reasonable diligence on the security before
recommending it to the customer, and he failed to understand the risks related to L
Bonds. Chapman did not conduct a reasonable review of the offering documents, and
thus did not understand that L Bonds were high risk and speculative, or that, in the event
of a default, bondholders’ ability to enforce their rights to payment was restricted.
Further, Chapman erroneously concluded that the diversification caused by GWG’s
change in business model in 2018 and 2019—away from the acquisition of life insurance
policies, and toward providing liquidity to holders of illiquid investments and alternative
assets—would reduce the risks associated with the investment. In fact, however, this
change in business model increased the risks associated with investment in GWG L
Bonds, in part because L Bonds were no longer fully backed by life insurance policies.
Chapman recommended that his customer invest a total of $50,000 in GWG L Bonds in
January and December 2020. In January 2020, while he was associated with WestPark,
and after the customer reached out to Chapman’s firm about investing in the security,
Chapman recommended that the customer invest $28,000 in GWG L Bonds. The
customer directed that the investment be split evenly between two- and three-year L
Bonds. And in December 2020, while he was associated with American Trust, and after
the customer again contacted Chapman about investing additional amounts in GWG L
Bonds, Chapman recommended that the customer invest another $22,000 in two-year L
Bonds. As a result of these investments, the customer had at least 14% of his disclosed
liquid net worth invested in L Bonds. Chapman earned $1,471 in commissions from these
recommendations.
Given the high degree of risk associated with L Bonds, Chapman did not have a
reasonable basis to believe that his recommendations that the customer invest $50,000 in
4

L Bonds were either in the customer’s best interest or suitable in light of the customer’s
investment profile. At all relevant times, the customer disclosed a moderately aggressive
risk tolerance and a liquid net worth of $350,000. The customer’s investment objectives
were income and preservation of capital, and did not include speculation. And, when
recommending the second purchase of GWG L Bonds in December 2020, along with
other types of investments, Chapman did not exercise reasonable diligence, care, and skill
to consider reasonably available alternatives to the L-Bond recommendation that may
have achieved the customer’s objectives.
Therefore, Chapman willfully violated Exchange Act Rule 15l-1(a)(1) and violated
FINRA Rule 2111 and FINRA Rule 2010.
C.

Chapman made negligent misrepresentations and omissions of material fact
when recommending GWG L Bonds to his customer.

Section 17(a)(2) of the Securities Act provides that it shall be unlawful “to obtain money
or property by means of any untrue statement of a material fact or any omission to state a
material fact necessary in order to make the statements made, in light of the
circumstances under which they were made, not misleading.” It is a violation of FINRA
Rule 2010 to act in contravention of Section 17(a)(2) of the Securities Act.
Making a negligent misrepresentation or an omission of a material fact to customers
independently violates FINRA Rule 2010, as it is inconsistent with just and equitable
principles of trade.
In January 2020, while associated with WestPark, and after the customer reached out to
Chapman about investing in GWG L Bonds, Chapman sent third-party risk reports to the
customer that rated investments on a scale from 1 to 100, with 1 representing the lowest
risk and 100 representing the highest risk. The risk reports assigned a risk score of “1” to
the two-, three-, and five-year GWG L Bonds, and the same risk score of “1” to cash.
Chapman advised the customer that he was sharing the risk reports to “ease [the
customer’s] mind even more about the GWG L Bonds.” After receiving the reports, the
customer told Chapman that he had more confidence in GWG L Bonds. The customer
then made an initial investment of $28,000 in L Bonds.
In December 2020, before the customer made his second purchase of GWG L Bonds, the
customer emailed Chapman and asked, among other things, if GWG L Bonds were “still
very conservative.” Chapman did not correct the customer’s belief that GWG L Bonds
were a conservative investment. Instead, Chapman negligently misrepresented that:
(1) GWG was still acquiring life insurance policies, when it in fact had ceased doing so;
(2) it was “normal” for a company like GWG to operate at a loss for many years;
(3) GWG was “more secure” as a result of its merger with Beneficient (which resulted in
GWG’s shift in business model toward providing liquidity to holders of illiquid
investments and alternative assets); and (4) the customer should only “worry about” the
five- or seven-year GWG L Bonds. After receiving Chapman’s response, the customer
invested another $22,000 in L Bonds.
5

As a result of Chapman’s negligent misrepresentations and omissions of material fact
regarding GWG L Bonds, he violated FINRA Rule 2010, both independently and by
acting in contravention of Section 17(a)(2) of the Securities Act.
B.

Respondent also consents to the imposition of the following sanctions:


a three-month suspension from associating with any FINRA member in all
capacities;



a $5,000 fine; and



disgorgement of $1,471 plus interest as described below. 5

The fine shall be due and payable either immediately upon reassociation with a member
firm or prior to any application or request for relief from any statutory disqualification
resulting from this or any other event or proceeding, whichever is earlier.
Disgorgement of commissions received is ordered to be paid to FINRA in the amount of
$1,471, plus interest at the rate set forth in Section 6621(a)(2) of the Internal Revenue
Code, 26 U.S.C. § 6621(a)(2), from December 15, 2020, until the date this AWC is
accepted by the National Adjudicatory Council (NAC). Disgorgement shall be due and
payable either immediately upon reassociation with a member firm or prior to any
application or request for relief from any statutory disqualification resulting from this or
any other event or proceeding, whichever is earlier.
Respondent specifically and voluntarily waives any right to claim an inability to pay, now
or at any time after the execution of this AWC, the monetary sanctions imposed in this
matter.
Respondent understands that if he is barred or suspended from associating with any
FINRA member, he becomes subject to a statutory disqualification as that term is defined
in Article III, Section 4 of FINRA’s By-Laws, incorporating Section 3(a)(39) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Accordingly, he may not be associated with any
FINRA member in any capacity, including clerical or ministerial functions, during the
period of the bar or suspension. See FINRA Rules 8310 and 8311.
Respondent understands that this settlement includes a finding that he willfully violated
Rule 15l-1 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and that under Article III, Section 4 of
FINRA’s By-Laws, this makes him subject to a statutory disqualification with respect to
association with a member.
The sanctions imposed in this AWC shall be effective on a date set by FINRA.

Chapman’s customer brought and settled an arbitration against American Trust relating to the customer’s GWG L
Bond investments. Chapman was not a party to, and did not participate in, the settlement of that arbitration.

5

6

II.
WAIVER OF PROCEDURAL RIGHTS
Respondent specifically and voluntarily waives the following rights granted under FINRA’s
Code of Procedure:
A.

To have a complaint issued specifying the allegations against him;

B.

To be notified of the complaint and have the opportunity to answer the allegations
in writing;

C.

To defend against the allegations in a disciplinary hearing before a hearing panel,
to have a written record of the hearing made, and to have a written decision
issued; and

D.

To appeal any such decision to the National Adjudicatory Council (NAC) and
then to the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission and a U.S. Court of
Appeals.

Further, Respondent specifically and voluntarily waives any right to claim bias or prejudgment
of the Chief Legal Officer, the NAC, or any member of the NAC, in connection with such
person’s or body’s participation in discussions regarding the terms and conditions of this AWC,
or other consideration of this AWC, including its acceptance or rejection.
Respondent further specifically and voluntarily waives any right to claim that a person violated
the ex parte prohibitions of FINRA Rule 9143 or the separation of functions prohibitions of
FINRA Rule 9144, in connection with such person’s or body’s participation in discussions
regarding the terms and conditions of this AWC, or other consideration of this AWC, including
its acceptance or rejection.
III.
OTHER MATTERS
Respondent understands that:
A.

Submission of this AWC is voluntary and will not resolve this matter unless and
until it has been reviewed and accepted by the NAC, a Review Subcommittee of
the NAC, or the Office of Disciplinary Affairs (ODA), pursuant to FINRA Rule
9216;

B.

If this AWC is not accepted, its submission will not be used as evidence to prove
any of the allegations against Respondent; and

C.

If accepted:
7

1.

this AWC will become part of Respondent’s permanent disciplinary
record and may be considered in any future action brought by FINRA or
any other regulator against Respondent;

2.

this AWC will be made available through FINRA’s public disclosure
program in accordance with FINRA Rule 8313;

3.

FINRA may make a public announcement concerning this agreement and
its subject matter in accordance with FINRA Rule 8313; and

4.

Respondent may not take any action or make or permit to be made any
public statement, including in regulatory filings or otherwise, denying,
directly or indirectly, any finding in this AWC or create the impression
that the AWC is without factual basis. Respondent may not take any
position in any proceeding brought by or on behalf of FINRA, or to which
FINRA is a party, that is inconsistent with any part of this AWC. Nothing
in this provision affects Respondent’s right to take legal or factual
positions in litigation or other legal proceedings in which FINRA is not a
party. Nothing in this provision affects Respondent’s testimonial
obligations in any litigation or other legal proceedings.

8

Respondent certifies that he has read and understands all of the provisions of this AWC and has
been given a full opportunity to ask questions about it; Respondent has agreed to the AWC’s
provisions voluntarily; and no offer, threat, inducement, or promise of any kind, other than the
terms set forth in this AWC and the prospect of avoiding the issuance of a complaint, has been
made to induce him to submit this AWC.
August 16, 2024

Date

Kyle William Chapman
Respondent

Reviewed by:
__________________________
Edwin A. Barkel
Counsel for Respondent
Lewis Roca Rothgerber Christie LLP
201 East Washington Street, Suite 1200
Phoenix, AZ 85004
Accepted by FINRA:
Signed on behalf of the
Director of ODA, by delegated authority
September 5, 2024

Date

Jamie P. Keesing
Counsel
FINRA
Department of Enforcement
9509 Key West Avenue
Rockville, MD 20850

9

