FINANCIAL INDUSTRY REGULATORY AUTHORITY
LETTER OF ACCEPTANCE, WAIVER, AND CONSENT
NO. 2020065683302
TO:

Department of Enforcement
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA)

RE:

Edward Scott Short (Respondent)
Former General Securities Representative
CRD No. 2462752

Pursuant to FINRA Rule 9216, Respondent Edward Scott Short submits this Letter of
Acceptance, Waiver, and Consent (AWC) for the purpose of proposing a settlement of the
alleged rule violations described below. This AWC is submitted on the condition that, if
accepted, FINRA will not bring any future actions against Respondent alleging violations based
on the same factual findings described in this AWC.
I.
ACCEPTANCE AND CONSENT
A.

Respondent accepts and consents to the following findings by FINRA without admitting
or denying them:
BACKGROUND
Respondent entered the securities industry in 1994. In October 2012, Respondent became
registered as a General Securities Representatives through an association with Laidlaw &
Company (UK) Ltd., a FINRA member. On October 13, 2022, the firm filed a Uniform
Termination Notice for Securities Industry Registration (Form U5) stating that
Respondent was permitted to resign, effective September 14, 2022. Respondent is not
currently associated with a FINRA member, but remains subject to FINRA’s jurisdiction
pursuant to Article V, Section 4 of FINRA’s By-Laws.1
OVERVIEW
Between July 2018 and December 2020, Respondent recommended a series of trading in
an account held by a customer that was excessive, unsuitable, and not in the customer’s
best interest. By this conduct, Respondent willfully violated the Best Interest Obligation
under Rule 15l-1 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (Regulation BI) (for the period
June 30, 2020 through December 31, 2020) and violated FINRA Rule 2111 (for the
period July 1, 2018 through June 29, 2020) and FINRA Rule 2010.

1

For more information about the respondent, visit BrokerCheck® at www.finra.org/brokercheck.

FACTS AND VIOLATIVE CONDUCT
This matter originated from a cycle examination of the firm.
As of June 30, 2020, broker-dealers and their associated persons are required to comply
with Regulation BI under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Reg BI’s Best Interest
Obligation requires a broker, dealer, or a natural person associated with a broker or
dealer, when making a recommendation of any securities transaction or investment
strategy involving securities (including account recommendations) to a retail customer, to
act in the best interest of that retail customer at the time the recommendation is made,
without placing the financial or other interest of the broker, dealer, or associated person
ahead of the interest of the retail customer. Reg BI’s Care Obligation, set forth at
Exchange Act Rule 15l-1(a)(2)(ii), requires broker-dealers and their associated persons to
exercise reasonable diligence, care, and skill to, among other things, have a reasonable
basis to believe that a series of recommended transactions, even if in the retail customer’s
best interest when viewed in isolation, is not excessive and is in the retail customer’s best
interest in light of the retail customer’s investment profile. A violation of Reg BI also is
a violation of FINRA Rule 2010, which requires associated persons to “observe high
standards of commercial honor and just and equitable principles of trade” in the conduct
of their business.
Prior to June 30, 2020, FINRA Rule 2111 required members and associated persons to
have a reasonable basis to believe that a recommended transaction or investment strategy
involving a security or securities is suitable for the customer. FINRA’s suitability rule
included an obligation to adhere to standards of “quantitative suitability”—i.e., whether
the quantity of activity within a given timeframe is suitable in light of the customer's
financial circumstances and investment objectives. Under Rule 2111.05(c), members and
associated persons with actual or de facto control over an account were required to have a
reasonable basis for believing that a series of recommended transactions, even if suitable
when viewed in isolation, are not excessive and unsuitable for the customer in light of the
customer’s investment profile. A violation of FINRA Rule 2111 also is a violation of
FINRA Rule 2010.
No single test defines when trading is excessive, but factors such as the turnover rate and
the cost-to-equity ratio are relevant to determining whether a member firm or associated
person has excessively traded a customer’s account. The turnover rate represents the
number of times that a portfolio of securities is exchanged for another portfolio of
securities. The cost-to-equity ratio measures the amount an account must appreciate just
to cover commissions and other expenses. In other words, it is the break-even point
where a customer may begin to see a return. A turnover rate of six or a cost-to-equity
ratio above 20 percent generally indicates that a series of recommended transactions was
excessive.
In September 2015, Respondent’s retail customer opened an account with Laidlaw when
he was aged 77. During the relevant period, the customer had a high net worth and a
speculative investment objective. Between July 2018 and December 2020, the customer
2

relied on Respondent’s advice and routinely followed his recommendations and, as a
result, Respondent exercised de facto control over the customer’s account.
Between July 2018 and December 2020, Respondent recommended 204 transactions in
the customer’s account. During this period, the trading in the customer’s account
generated $116,859 in commissions and resulted in approximately $185,000 in trading
losses, an annualized cost-to-equity ratio of 76.53%, and an annualized turnover rate of
47.49. The high cost-to-equity ratio meant the customer’s account would have to grow by
more than 76 percent annually just to break even. This level of trading was excessive,
unsuitable, and not in the customer’s best interest.
Therefore, Respondent willfully violated Exchange Act Rule 15l-1 (for the period June
30, 2020 through December 31, 2020) and violated FINRA Rule 2111 (for the period
July 1, 2018 through June 29, 2020) and FINRA Rule 2010.
B.

Respondent also consents to the imposition of the following sanctions:


a seven-month suspension from associating with any FINRA member in all
capacities;



a $5,000 fine; and



restitution of $116,859 plus interest as described below.

The sanctions imposed in this AWC shall be effective on a date set by FINRA.
The fine shall be due and payable either immediately upon reassociation with a member
firm or prior to any application or request for relief from any statutory disqualification
resulting from this or any other event or proceeding, whichever is earlier.
Restitution is ordered to be paid to the customer listed on Attachment A to this AWC
(Eligible Customers) in the total amount of $116,859, plus interest at the rate set forth in
Section 6621(a)(2) of the Internal Revenue Code, 26 U.S.C. § 6621(a)(2), from
December 31, 2020, until the date the restitution plus interest are due and payable.
Restitution plus interest ordered pursuant to this disciplinary action are due and payable
immediately upon reassociation with a member firm or upon submission of any
application or request for relief from any statutory disqualification resulting from this or
any other event or proceeding, whichever is earlier.
Respondent shall submit satisfactory proof of payment of restitution and interest
(separately specifying the date and amount of each paid to each Eligible Customer) or of
reasonable and documented efforts undertaken to effect restitution. Such proof shall be
submitted by email to EnforcementNotice@FINRA.org. The email must identify
Respondent and the case number and include a copy of the check, money order, or other
method of payment. This proof shall be provided by email to

3

EnforcementNotice@FINRA.org no later than 120 days after the date the restitution plus
interest are due and payable.
The restitution amount plus interest to be paid to each Eligible Customer shall be treated
by the Respondent as the Eligible Customer’s property for purposes of state escheatment,
unclaimed property, abandoned property, and similar laws. If after reasonable and
documented efforts undertaken to effect restitution Respondent is unable to pay all
Eligible Customers within 120 days after the restitution and interest are due and payable,
Respondent shall submit to FINRA in the manner described above a list of the unpaid
Eligible Customers and a description of Respondent’s plan, not unacceptable to FINRA,
to comply with the applicable escheatment, unclaimed property, abandoned property, or
similar laws for each such Eligible Customer.
Respondent specifically and voluntarily waives any right to claim an inability to pay, now
or at any time after the execution of this AWC, the monetary sanctions imposed in this
matter.
The imposition of a restitution order or any other monetary sanctions in this AWC, and
the timing of such ordered payments, does not preclude customers from pursuing their
own actions to obtain restitution or other remedies.
Respondent understands that if he is barred or suspended from associating with any
FINRA member, he becomes subject to a statutory disqualification as that term is defined
in Article III, Section 4 of FINRA’s By-Laws, incorporating Section 3(a)(39) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Accordingly, he may not be associated with any
FINRA member in any capacity, including clerical or ministerial functions, during the
period of the bar or suspension. See FINRA Rules 8310 and 8311.
Respondent understands that this settlement includes a finding that he willfully violated
Rule 15l-1 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and that under Article III, Section 4 of
FINRA’s By-Laws, this makes him subject to a statutory disqualification with respect to
association with a member.
II.
WAIVER OF PROCEDURAL RIGHTS
Respondent specifically and voluntarily waives the following rights granted under FINRA’s
Code of Procedure:
A.

To have a complaint issued specifying the allegations against him;

B.

To be notified of the complaint and have the opportunity to answer the allegations
in writing;

4

C.

To defend against the allegations in a disciplinary hearing before a hearing panel,
to have a written record of the hearing made, and to have a written decision
issued; and

D.

To appeal any such decision to the National Adjudicatory Council (NAC) and
then to the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission and a U.S. Court of
Appeals.

Further, Respondent specifically and voluntarily waives any right to claim bias or prejudgment
of the Chief Legal Officer, the NAC, or any member of the NAC, in connection with such
person’s or body’s participation in discussions regarding the terms and conditions of this AWC,
or other consideration of this AWC, including its acceptance or rejection.
Respondent further specifically and voluntarily waives any right to claim that a person violated
the ex parte prohibitions of FINRA Rule 9143 or the separation of functions prohibitions of
FINRA Rule 9144, in connection with such person’s or body’s participation in discussions
regarding the terms and conditions of this AWC, or other consideration of this AWC, including
its acceptance or rejection.
III.
OTHER MATTERS
Respondent understands that:
A.

Submission of this AWC is voluntary and will not resolve this matter unless and
until it has been reviewed and accepted by the NAC, a Review Subcommittee of
the NAC, or the Office of Disciplinary Affairs (ODA), pursuant to FINRA Rule
9216;

B.

If this AWC is not accepted, its submission will not be used as evidence to prove
any of the allegations against Respondent; and

C.

If accepted:
1.

this AWC will become part of Respondent’s permanent disciplinary
record and may be considered in any future action brought by FINRA or
any other regulator against Respondent;

2.

this AWC will be made available through FINRA’s public disclosure
program in accordance with FINRA Rule 8313;

3.

FINRA may make a public announcement concerning this agreement and
its subject matter in accordance with FINRA Rule 8313; and

4.

Respondent may not take any action or make or permit to be made any
public statement, including in regulatory filings or otherwise, denying,
5

Accepted by FINRA:
Signed on behalf of the
Director of ODA, by delegated authority
•*--"N

t 131 /23
Date

Robert Fair
Senior Counsel
FINRA
Department of Enforcement
200 Liberty Street, 1 lth floor
New York, NY 10281-1003

7

PUBLIC VERSION
Attachment A
Customer
Customer

Restitution
Amount
$116,859

9

Interest Date
December 31, 2020

