FINANCIAL INDUSTRY REGULATORY AUTHORITY
LETTER OF ACCEPTANCE, WAIVER, AND CONSENT
NO. 2020065683301

TO:

Department of Enforcement
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA)

RE:

Todd Anthony Cirella (Respondent)
General Securities Representative
CRD No. 2396336

Pursuant to FINRA Rule 9216, Respondent Todd Anthony Cirella submits this Letter of
Acceptance, Waiver, and Consent (A WC) for the purpose of proposing a settlement of the
alleged rule violations described below. This A WC is submitted on the condition that, if
accepted, FINRA will not bring any future actions against Respondent alleging violations based
on the same factual findings described in this A WC.
I.

ACCEPTANCE AND CONSENT

A.

Respondent accepts and consents to the following findings by FINRA without admitting
or denying them:
BACKGROUND

Respondent entered the securities industry in 1993. Since July 2004, Respondent has
been registered as a General Securities Representative through an association with
Laidlaw & Company (UK) Ltd., a FINRA member, and, accordingly, is subject to
FINRA's jurisdiction. 1
OVERVIEW

Between June 2020 and January 2021, Respondent recommended a series of trading in an
account held by a senior customer that was excessive, unsuitable, and not in the
customer's best interest. By this conduct, Respondent willfully violated the Best Interest
Obligation under Rule 15/-1 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (Regulation BI) (for
the period June 30, 2020 through January 31, 2021 ), and violated FINRA Rule 2111 (for
the period June 1, 2020 through June 29, 2020), and FINRA Rule 2010.
FACTS AND VIOLATIVE CONDUCT

This matter originated from a cycle examination of the firm.

1

For more information about the respondent, visit BrokerCheck® at www.finra.org/brokercheck.

As of June 30, 2020, broker-dealers and their associated persons are required to comply
with Regulation BI under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Reg BI's Best Interest
Obligation requires a broker, dealer, or a natural person associated with a broker or
dealer, when making a recommendation of any securities transaction or investment
strategy involving securities (including account recommendations) to a retail customer, to
act in the best interest of that retail customer at the time the recommendation is made,
without placing the financial or other interest of the broker, dealer, or associated person
ahead of the interest of the retail customer. Reg BI's Care Obligation, set forth at
Exchange Act Rule 151-1(a)(2)(ii), requires broker-dealers and their associated persons to
exercise reasonable diligence, care, and skill to, among other things, have a reasonable
basis to believe that a series of recommended transactions, even if in the retail customer's
best interest when viewed in isolation, is not excessive and is in the retail customer's best
interest in light of the retail customer's investment profile. A violation of Reg BI also is a
violation of FINRA Rule 20 l 0, which requires associated persons to "observe high
standards of commercial honor and just and equitable principles of trade" in the conduct
of their business.
Prior to June 30, 2020, FINRA Rule 2111 required members and associated persons to
have a reasonable basis to believe that a recommended transaction or investment strategy
involving a security or securities is suitable for the customer. FINRA's suitability rule
included an obligation to adhere to standards of "quantitative suitability"- i.e., whether
the quantity of activity within a given timeframe is suitable in light of the customer's
financial circumstances and investment objectives. Under Rule 2111.05(c), members and
associated persons with actual or de facto control over an account were required to have a
reasonable basis for believing that a series of recommended transactions, even if suitable
when viewed in isolation, are not excessive and unsuitable for the customer in light of the
customer' s investment profile. A violation ofFINRA Rule 2111 also is a violation of
FINRA Rule 2010.
No single test defines when trading is excessive, but factors such as the turnover rate and
the cost-to-equity ratio are relevant to determining whether a member firm or associated
person has excessively traded a customer's account. The turnover rate represents the
number of times that a portfolio of securities is exchanged for another portfolio of
securities. The cost-to-equity ratio measures the amount an account must appreciate just
to cover commissions and other expenses. In other words, it is the break-even point
where a customer may begin to see a return. A turnover rate of six or a cost-to-equity
ratio above 20 percent generally indicates that a series of recommended transactions was
excessive.
In July 2010, Respondent's retail customer opened an account with Laidlaw when he was
aged 60. Between June 2020 and January 2021 , the customer relied on Respondent's
advice and routinely followed his recommendations and, as a result, Respondent
exercised de facto control over the customer's account.
Between June 2020 and January 2021 , Respondent recommended 46 transactions in the
customer's account. During this period, the trading in the customer' s account generated

$27,566 in commissions and resulted in approximately $12,000 in trading losses, an
annualized cost-to-equity ratio of 37.65%, and an annualized turnover rate of20.39. The
high cost-to-equity ratio meant the customer's account would have to grow by more than
37 percent annually just to break even, making it very difficult for the customer to realize
a profit. This level of trading was excessive, unsuitable, and not in the customer's best
interest.
Therefore, Respondent willfully violated Exchange Act Rule 15/- 1 and violated FINRA
Rule 2111 and FINRA Rule 2010.
B.

Respondent also consents to the imposition of the following sanctions:
•

a three-month suspension from associating with any FINRA member in all
capacities;

•

a $5,000 fine; and

•

restitution of $27,566 plus interest as described below.

The sanctions imposed in this A WC shall be effective on a date set by FINRA.
Respondent agrees to pay the monetary sanctions upon notice that this A WC has been
accepted and that such payment is due and payable. Respondent has submitted an
Election of Payment form showing the method by which he proposes to pay the fine
imposed.
Restitution is ordered to be paid to the customer listed on Attachment A to this A WC
(Eligible Customer) in the total amount of $27,566, plus interest at the rate set forth in
Section 6621(a)(2) of the Internal Revenue Code, 26 U.S.C. § 6621(a)(2), from January
31, 2021 until the date this A WC is accepted by the National Adjudicatory Council
(NAC).
Respondent shall submit satisfactory proof of payment of restitution and interest
(separately specifying the date and amount of each paid to each Eligible Customer) or of
reasonable and documented efforts undertaken to effect restitution. Such proof shall be
submitted by email to EnforcementNotice@FINRA.org. The email must identify
Respondent and the case number and include a copy of the check, money order, or other
method of payment. This proof shall be provided by email to
EnforcementNotice@FINRA.org no later than 120 days after the date of the notice of
acceptance of the A WC.
The restitution amount plus interest to be paid to each Eligible Customer shall be treated
by the Respondent as the Eligible Customer's property for purposes of state escheatment,
unclaimed property, abandoned property, and similar laws. If after reasonable and
documented efforts undertaken to effect restitution Respondent is unable to pay all
Eligible Customers within 120 days after the date of the notice of acceptance of the
A WC, Respondent shall submit to FINRA in the manner described above a list of the

unpaid Eligible Customers and a description of Respondent's plan, not unacceptable to
FINRA, to comply with the applicable escheatment, unclaimed property, abandoned
property, or similar laws for each such Eligible Customer.
Respondent specifically and voluntarily waives any right to claim an inability to pay, now
or at any time after the execution of this AWC, the monetary sanctions imposed in this
matter.
The imposition of a restitution order or any other monetary sanctions in this A WC, and
the timing of such ordered payments, does not preclude customers from pursuing their
own actions to obtain restitution or other remedies.
Respondent understands that if he is barred or suspended from associating with any
FINRA member, he becomes subject to a statutory disqualification as that term is defined
in Article III, Section 4 of FINRA' s By-Laws, incorporating Section 3(a)(39) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Accordingly, he may not be associated with any
FINRA member in any capacity, including clerical or ministerial functions, during the
period of the bar or suspension. See FIN RA Rules 8310 and 8311.
Respondent understands that this settlement includes a finding that he willfully violated
Rule 15/- 1 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and that under Article III, Section 4 of
FINRA's By-Laws, this makes him subject to a statutory disqualification with respect to
association with a member.
II.

WAIVER OF PROCEDURAL RIGHTS
Respondent specifically and voluntarily waives the following rights granted under FINRA's
Code of Procedure:
A.

To have a complaint issued specifying the allegations against him;

B.

To be notified of the complaint and have the opportunity to answer the allegations
in writing;

C.

To defend against the allegations in a disciplinary hearing before a hearing panel,
to have a written record of the hearing made, and to have a written decision
issued; and

D.

To appeal any such decision to the National Adjudicatory Council (NAC) and
then to the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission and a U.S. Court of
Appeals.

Further, Respondent specifically and voluntarily waives any right to claim bias or prej udgment
of the Chief Legal Officer, the NAC, or any member of the NAC, in connection with such

person's or body's participation in discussions regarding the terms and conditions of this A WC,
or other consideration of this A WC, including its acceptance or rejection.
Respondent further specifically and voluntarily waives any right to claim that a person violated
the ex parte prohibitions of FINRA Rule 9143 or the separation of functions prohibitions of
FINRA Rule 9144, in connection with such person's or body' s participation in discussions
regarding the terms and conditions of this A WC, or other consideration of this A WC, including
its acceptance or rejection.

III.
OTHER MATTERS
Respondent understands that:
A.

Submission of this A WC is voluntary and will not resolve this matter unless and
until it has been reviewed and accepted by the NAC, a Review Subcommittee of
the NAC, or the Office of Disciplinary Affairs (ODA), pursuant to FIN RA Rule
9216;

B.

If this A WC is not accepted, its submission will not be used as evidence to prove
any of the allegations against Respondent; and

C.

If accepted:
1.

this A WC will become part of Respondent's permanent disciplinary
record and may be considered in any future action brought by FINRA or
any other regulator against Respondent;

2.

this A WC will be made available through FINRA's public disclosure
program in accordance with FINRA Rule 8313;

3.

FINRA may make a public announcement concerning this agreement and
its subject matter in accordance with FINRA Rule 8313; and

4.

Respondent may not take any action or make or permit to be made any
public statement, including in regulatory filings or otherwise, denying,
directly or indirectly, any finding in this A WC or create the impression
that the A WC is without factual basis. Respondent may not take any
position in any proceeding brought by or on behalf of FINRA, or to which
FINRA is a party, that is inconsistent with any part of this A WC. Nothing
in this provision affects Respondent's right to take legal or factual
positions in litigation or other legal proceedings in which FIN RA is not a
party. Nothing in this provision affects Respondent's testimonial
obligations in any litigation or other legal proceedings.

D.

Respondent may attach a corrective action statement to this AWC that is a
statement of demonstrable corrective steps taken to prevent future misconduct.
Respondent understands that he may not deny the charges or make any statement
that is inconsistent with the A WC in this statement. This statement does not
constitute factual or legal findings by FINRA, nor does it reflect the views of

FINRA.
Respondent certifies that he has read and understands all of the provisions of this A WC and has

been given a full opportunity to ask questions about it; Respondent has agreed to the AWC's
provisions voluntari1y; and no offer, threat, inducement, or promise of any kind, other than the

terms set forth in this A WC and the prospect of avoiding the issuance of a complaint, has been
made to induce him to submit this A WC.

~nyCirella

Date

Respondent

Reviewed by:

. abnick Jr., Esq.

5 A venue of the Americas Counsel for Respondent

Sichenzia Ross Ference LLP
1185 Avenue of the Americas, 31st Floor

New York, NY 10036

Accepted by FINRA:
Signed on behalf of the
Director of ODA, by delegated authority

Date

Robert F a i ~ a = = =
Senior Counsel

FINRA
Department of Enforcement

200 Liberty Street, 11th floor
New York, NY 10281-1003

PUBLIC VERSION
Attachment A
Customer

Customer

Restitution
Amount
$27,566

Interest Date

January 31 , 2021

