FINANCIAL INDUSTRY REGULATORY AUTHORITY
LETTER OF ACCEPTANCE, WAIVER,AND CONSENT
NO. 2021069377402
TO:

Department of Enforcement
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA)

RE:

Investments for You, Inc. (Respondent)
Member Firm
CRD No. 29257

Pursuant to FINRA Rule 9216, Respondent Investments for You, Inc. submits this Letter of
Acceptance, Waiver, and Consent (AWC) for the purpose of proposing a settlement of the
alleged rule violations described below. This A WC is submitted on the condition that, if
accepted, FINRA will not bring any future actions against Respondent alleging violations based
on the same factual findings described in this A WC.

I.
ACCEPTANCE AND CONSENT
A.

Respondent accepts and consents to the following findings by FINRA without admitting
or denying them:

BACKGROUND
Investments for You has been a FINRA member since 1992. The firm, which is located
in Marysville, Ohio, has seven registered representatives. Investments for You is a
limited broker-dealer, selling products on an application-way basis to retail investors. 1

OVERVIEW
From June 30, 2020, to September 11, 2024, Investments for You failed to establish and
maintain written policies and procedures, and a supervisory system, reasonably designed
to achieve compliance with Securities Exchange Act of 1934 Rule 15/-1 (Regulation Best
Interest or Reg BI). As a result, the firm willfully violated Exchange Act Rule 15/-l(a)(l)
and violated FINRA Rules 3110 and 2010.
From June 30, 2020, to September 11, 2024, Investments for You also failed to establish

and maintain a supervisory system, including written supervisory procedures (WSPs),
reasonably designed to achieve compliance with its Exchange Act Rule 17a-14
obligations to file, deliver, and update its customer relationship summary (Form CRS).
Investments for You therefore violated FINRA Rules 3110 and 2010.

1 For more information about the firm, including prior regulatory events, visit BrokerCheck® at
www.finra.org/bro kercheck.

Additionally, from August 27, 2020, to July 6, 2022, Investments for You falsely
responded "No" to the Form CRS question concerning legal or disciplinary history. The
firm was required to respond "Yes," because both the firm and its Chief Executive
Officer had prior disciplinary history. As a result, Investments for You willfully violated
Section l 7(a)(l) of the Exchange Act and Exchange Act Rule l 7a-14, and violated
FINRA Rule 2010.
Finally, from May 22, 2024, to September 12, 2024, Investments for You failed to timely
respond to two requests for documents and information made pursuant to FINRA Rule
8210. The firm did not respond to either request until after FINRA suspended its
membership pursuant to FINRA Rule 9552, based on the firm's failure to provide the
documents and information sought in the two requests. As a result, Investments for You
violated FINRA Rules 8210 and 2010.
FACTS AND VIOLATIVE CONDUCT

This matter originated from a FINRA firm examination of Investments for You.
A.

Investments for You failed to establish and maintain written policies and
procedures, and a supervisory system, reasonably designed to comply with
Regulation Best Interest.

As of June 30, 2020, broker-dealers and their associated persons are required to comply
with Regulation BI under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Rule 15/-1 (a)(l) of Reg
BI requires a broker, dealer, or a natural person associated with a broker or dealer, when
making a recommendation of any securities transaction or investment strategy involving
securities (including account recommendations) to a retail customer, to act in the best
interest of that retail customer at the time the recommendation is made, without placing
the financial or other interest of the broker, dealer, or associated person ahead of the
interest of the retail customer. Reg BI's Compliance Obligation, set forth at Exchange
Act Rule 15/-l(a)(2)(iv), requires a broker-dealer to establish, maintain, and enforce
written policies and procedures reasonably designed to achieve compliance with Reg BI.
Reg BJ's Adopting Release provides that broker-dealers should consider the nature of
that firm's operations and how to design such policies and procedures to prevent
violations from occurring, detect violations that have occurred, and to correct promptly
any violations that have occurred.
FINRA Rule 3110 requires member firms to establish, maintain, and enforce a
supervisory system, including written procedures, to supervise the activities of each
associated person that is reasonably designed to achieve compliance with applicable
securities laws, regulations, and FINRA rules.
Violations of Reg BI or FINRA Rule 3110 are also violations ofFINRA Rule 2010,
which requires member firms to observe high standards of commercial honor and just and
equitable principles of trade in the conduct of their business.

2

Since June 30, 2020, Investments for You has recommended securities to retail investors.
Nonetheless, from June 30, 2020, through September 11, 2024, Investments for You
failed, despite receiving notices from FINRA, to establish and maintain written policies
and procedures reasonably designed to achieve compliance with Reg BI. In connection
with FINRA' s firm examinations of Investments for You, FIN RA advised the firm in
April 2021, and then again in May 2022, that the firm was required to implement written
policies and procedures relating to Reg BI. Nonetheless, the firm failed to establish and
maintain any such policies or procedures until September 12, 2024.
During the same period, the firm also failed-despite the notices from FINRA-to
establish, maintain, and enforce a supervisory system, including WSPs, reasonably
designed to achieve compliance with Reg BI. Until September 12, 2024, the firm had no
system, including WSPs, to supervise for compliance with Reg BI.
Therefore, Investments for You willfully violated Exchange Act Rule 15/-l(a)(l) and
violated FINRA Rules 3110 and 2010.
B.

Investments for You failed to establish a supervisory system, including
WSPs, reasonably designed to comply with its Form CRS obligations.

On June 5, 2019, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) adopted Form CRS
and rules creating new requirements-which include requirements to file, deliver, and
update the Form CRS-for SEC-registered broker-dealers offering services to a retail
investor. The compliance date for Form CRS was June 30, 2020.
Form CRS provides customers with information about the types of services the firm
offers; the fees, costs, conflicts of interest, and required standard of conduct associated
with those services; whether the firm and its investment professionals have reportable
legal or disciplinary history; and how to get more information about the firm.
Form CRS also includes required "conversation starters" to help begin a discussion with
a broker-dealer about the relationship, including their services, fees, costs, conflicts, and
disciplinary information.
Section 17(a)(l) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 requires registered brokerdealers to make and keep for prescribed periods such records, furnish such copies
thereof, and make and disseminate such reports as the Commission deems "necessary or
appropriate in the public interest, for the protection of investors or otherwise in
furtherance of the purposes of' the Exchange Act. Exchange Act Rule 17 a-14-titled
"Form CRS, for preparation, filing and delivery of Form CRS"-requires broker-dealers
offering services to a retail investor to prepare a Form CRS in accordance with the
instructions in Form CRS, and to comply with requirements related to filing, amending,
delivering, and posting the Form CRS to the firm's public website.
A violation of Exchange Act§ 17(a)(l) and Exchange Act Rule 17a-14 also is a
violation of FINRA Rule 2010.

3

From June 30, 2020, through September 11, 2024, Investments for You failed to establish
and maintain a supervisory system, including WSPs, reasonably designed to achieve
compliance with its Form CRS obligations. FINRA advised the firm in April 2021 and
May 2022 that it was required to implement a supervisory system, including WSPs,
relating to Form CRS. Nonetheless, the firm failed until September 12, 2024, to establish
and maintain any such system or WSPs.
Accordingly, Investments for You violated FINRA Rules 3110 and 2010.

C.

Investments for You falsely responded to the Form CRS question concerning
legal or disciplinary history.

Form CRS contains the heading, "Do you or your financial professionals have legal or
disciplinary history?" The instructions to Form CRS state that a firm must respond "Yes"
if it or any of its financial professionals discloses, or is required to disclose, legal or
disciplinary history on specified regulatory disclosure forms, such as Forms BD, U4, U5,
and U6. 2 Legal or disciplinary history that is required to be disclosed on those forms
includes criminal history, regulatory actions, civil judicial actions, and specified financial
events (e.g., bankruptcies,judgments, and liens).
Investments for You falsely responded "No" to the question concerning legal or
disciplinary history on the Form CRS that it filed on August 27, 2020, even though the
firm and its Chief Executive Officer in fact had prior disciplinary history. Before filing its
Form CRS, Investments for You had disclosed on its Form BD a 1999 disciplinary action
for conducting a securities business while the firm was not maintaining its minimum net
capital, and for violating certain continuing education requirements. In addition, Forms
U4 and U6 filings for the firm's Chief Executive Officer disclosed the same 1999
disciplinary action, in which he also was a respondent. All of those filings, and the
disclosures contained in the filings, were reflected in FINRA 's Central Registration
Depository (CRD) and in BrokerCheck®, and were made by or were available to the
firm. Despite having disclosed a.disciplinary action on its Form BD-and despite its
knowledge of its Chief Executive Officer's disciplinary history-Investments for You
failed to respond "Yes" to the Form CRS question concerning legal or disciplinary
history.
Investments for You did not update its Form CRS to accurately respond "Yes" to the
question concerning legal or disciplinary history until July 7, 2022. The firm failed to
2 These forms are submitted to the Central Registration Depository by member firms or regulators. Broker-dealers

file Form BD (Uniform Application for Broker-Dealer Regulation) to become registered with the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission, FINRA, other self-regulatory organizations, and jurisdictions (e.g., U.S. states and
territories); Form U4 (Uniform Application for Securities Industry Registration or Transfer) is used to elicit
employment history, disciplinary, and other information about individuals, to register them with FINRA, other selfregulatory organizations, or jurisdictions; Form U5 (Uniform Termination Notice for Securities Industry
Registration) is used to terminate individuals' registrations with FINRA, other self-regulatory organizations, or
jurisdictions, and to elicit details regarding the reasons for termination; and Form U6 (Uniform Disciplinary Action
Reporting Form) is used by regulators to report disclosure events and disciplinary actions against individuals and
organizations, and to report final FINRA arbitration awards against broker-dealers and associated persons.

4

update its Form CRS even though FINRA had advised it in April 2021 that its response to
the question concerning legal or disciplinary history was inaccurate.
Therefore, Investments for You willfully violated Exchange Act§ 17(a)(l) and Exchange
Act Rule l 7a-l 4, and violated FINRA Rule 2010.

D.

Investments for You failed to timely respond to two FINRA Rule 8210
requests for documents and information.

FINRA Rule 8210(a) states, in relevant part, that FINRA may require a member "to
provide information orally, in writing, or electronically" and that FINRA may "inspect
and copy the books, records, and accounts of such member ... with respect to any matter
involved in [a FINRA] investigation [or] examination." FINRA Rule 8210(c) further
states that "[n]o member ... shall fail to provide information ... or to permit an
inspection and copying of books, records, or accounts pursuant to this Rule." Failing to
timely provide information and documents in response to a FINRA Rule 8210 request
violates FINRA Rules 8210 and 2010.
For nearly four months-from May 22, 2024, to September 12, 2024-Investments for
You failed to provide any information or documents responsive to two request letters that
FINRA issued pursuant to FINRA Rule 8210. FINRA issued the first request letter on
May 15, 2024. That request letter sought documents and information related to the firm's
adoption of procedures addressing Regulation Best Interest and Form CRS, and required
a response by May 22, 2024. When Investments for You did not respond to the first
request letter, FINRA issued a second request letter on May 23, 2024. The second request
letter required a response by May 30, 2024, and sought the same documents and
information requested in the first request letter. Investments for You failed to respond to
the second request letter by May 30, 2024.
Due to these failures to respond, on July 2, 2024, FINRA issued to the firm a Notice of
Suspension pursuant to FINRA Rule 9552, advising that FINRA would suspend the
firm's membership on July 26, 2024, unless the firm complied with the outstanding
FINRA Rule 8210 request letters or requested a hearing before the suspension date.
Because Investments for You neither responded to the outstanding request letters nor
requested a hearing, on July 26, 2024, FINRA suspended the firm's membership and
advised that the firm would be expelled from membership on October 7, 2024, if it failed
to request termination of the suspension. Investments for You provided the requested
documents and information on September 13, 2024-nearly two months after FINRA
suspended the firm, and nearly four months after FlNRA first requested the documents
and information pursuant to FINRA Rule 8210. 3
Therefore, Investments for You violated FINRA Rules 8210 and 2010.

3

FINRA terminated the firm's suspension on September 30, 2024.

5

B.

Respondent also consents to the imposition of the following sanctions:
•

a censure and

•

a $25,000 fine. 4

Respondent agrees to pay the monetary sanction upon notice that this A WC has been
accepted and that such payment is due and payable. Respondent has submitted an
Election of Payment form showing the method by which it proposes to pay the fine
imposed.
Respondent specifically and voluntarily waives any right to claim an inability to pay, now
or at any time after the execution of this A WC, the monetary sanction imposed in this
matter.
Respondent understands that this settlement includes a finding that it willfully violated
Section l 7(a)(l) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, and Exchange Act Rules
15/-l(a)(l) and l 7a-14, and that under Article Ill, Section 4 of FINRA's By-Laws, this
makes Respondent subject to a statutory disqualification with respect to membership.
The sanctions imposed in this A WC shall be effective on a date set by FINRA.

II.
W AIYER OF PROCEDURAL RIGHTS
Respondent specifically and voluntarily waives the following rights granted under FINRA's
Code of Procedure:
A.

To have a complaint issued specifying the allegations against it;

B.

To be notified of the complaint and have the opportunity to answer the allegations
in writing;

C.

To defend against the allegations in a disciplinary hearing before a hearing panel,
to have a written record of the hearing made, and to have a written decision
issued; and

D.

To appeal any such decision to the National Adjudicatory Council (NAC) and
then to the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission and a U.S. Court of
Appeals.

Further, Respondent specifically and voluntarily waives any right to claim bias or prejudgment
of the Chief Legal Officer, the NAC, or any member of the NAC, in connection with such
Pursuant to the General Principles Applicable to all Sanction Determinations contained in FTNRA's Sanction
Guidelines, FTNRA imposed a lower fine in this case after it considered, among other things, Respondent's revenues
and financial resources.

4

6

person's or body's participation in discussions regarding the terms and conditions of this A WC,
or other consideration of this A WC, including its acceptance or rejection.
Respondent further specifically and voluntarily waives any right to claim that a person violated
the ex parte prohibitions of FINRA Rule 9143 or the separation of functions prohibitions of
FINRA Rule 9144, in connection with such person's or body's participation in discussions
regarding the terms and conditions of this AWC, or other consideration of this AWC, including
its acceptance or rejection.
III.

OTHER MATTERS
Respondent understands that:
A.

Submission of this A WC is voluntary and will not resolve this matter unless and
until it has been reviewed and accepted by the NAC, a Review Subcommittee of
the NAC, or the Office of Disciplinary Affairs (ODA), pursuant to FINRA Rule
9216;

B.

If this A WC is not accepted, its submission will not be used as evidence to prove
any of the allegations against Respondent; and

C.

If accepted:
1.

this A WC will become part of Respondent's permanent disciplinary
record and may be considered in any future action brought by FINRA or
any other regulator against Respondent;

2.

this A WC will be made available through FINRA's public disclosure
program in accordance with FINRA Rule 8313;

3.

FINRA may make a public announcement concerning this agreement and
its subject matter in accordance with FINRA Rule 8313; and

4.

Respondent may not take any action or make or permit to be made any
public statement, including in regulatory filings or otherwise, denying,
directly or indirectly, any finding in this A WC or create the impression
that the A WC is without factual basis. Respondent may not take any
position in any proceeding brought by or on behalf of FINRA, or to which
FINRA is a party, that is inconsistent with any part of this A WC. Nothing
in this provision affects Respondent's right to take legal or factual
positions in litigation or other legal proceedings in which FINRA is not a
party. Nothing in this provision affects Respondent's testimonial
obligations in any litigation or other legal proceedings.

7

D.

Respondent may attach a corrective action statement to this A WC that is a
statement of demonstrable corrective steps taken to prevent future misconduct.
Respondent understands that it may not deny the charges or make any statement
that is inconsistent with the A WC in this statement. This statement does not
constitute factual or legal findings by FINRA, nor does it reflect the views of
FINRA.

The undersigned, on behalf of Respondent, certifies that a person duly authorized to act on
Respondent's behalf has read and understands all of the provisions of this AWC and has been
given a full opportunity to ask questions about it; that Respondent has agreed to the A WC's
provisions voluntarily; and that no offer, threat, inducement, or promise of any kind, other than
the terms set forth in this A WC and the prospect of avoiding the issuance of a complaint, has
been made to induce Respondent to submit this A WC.

Date

~t:':' a,...:~
Investments forYou, IncT
Respondent

/,

PrintName:

t-1ox: C blrl@mllV)

Title: pre,,s, i

deV)t

Accepted by FINRA:
Signed on behalf of the
Director of ODA, by delegated authority

January 8, 2025
Date

5

~~Y

Rebecca Segrest 5
Senior Counsel
FINRA
Department of Enforcement
9509 Key West Avenue
Rockville, MD 20850

Licensed to practice law in Georgia only.

8

