FINANCIAL INDUSTRY REGULATORY AUTHORITY
LETTER OF ACCEPTANCE, WAIVER, AND CONSENT
NO. 2021070498103
TO:

Department of Enforcement
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA)

RE:

Kim R. Kunz (Respondent)
Corporate Securities Representative
CRD No. 718618

Pursuant to FINRA Rule 9216, Respondent Kim R. Kunz submits this Letter of Acceptance,
Waiver. and Consent (A WC) for the purpose of proposing a settlement of the alleged rule
violations described below . Thi s A WC is submitted on the condition that. if accepted, FINRA
will not bring any future actions against Respondent alleging violations based on the same
factual findings described in this A WC.

I.
ACCEPTANCE AND CONSENT
A.

Respondent accepts and consents to the following findings by FIN RA without admitting
or denying them:
·

BACKGROUND
. Kunz first became registered with FINRA as an Investment Company and Variable
Contracts Products Representative (IR), Direct Participation Programs Representative
(DR), and General Securities Representative (GS) in 1980, through an association with a
FINRA member firm. Since November 2017. Kunz has been registered as an IR. DR,
General Securities Principal (GP). and Corporate Securities Representative (CS) through
WestPark Capital , Inc. (CRD No. 39914). 1

OVERVIEW
Kunz recommended that two retail customers invest in a speculative. unrated debt
security. In November 2019. Kunz ' s recommendation to Customer A resulted in a
concentration of more than 65% of her liquid net worth in alternative investments. The
recommendation was unsuitable for the customer based on her investment profile, and
Kunz therefore violated FINRA Rules 2111 and 20 I 0. In February 2021, Kunz's
recommendation to Customer B resulted in a concentration of more than 30% of her
liquid net worth in alternative investments. The recommendation was not in the
customer's best interest based on her investment profile, and Kunz therefore willfully
violated Rule 15/-1 (a)( I) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (Reg Bl) and
violated FINRA Rule 20 I 0.
1 For more infonnation about the respondent, visit BrokerCheck® at www.finra.org/brokercheck.

FACTS AND VIOLATIVE CONDUCT

1. Legal Framework
As of June 30, 2020, broker-dealers and their associated persons are required to comply
with Regulation Bl under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Rule 15/-1 (a)( 1) of Reg
Bl requires a broker. dealer, or a natural person associated with a broker or dealer, when
making a recommendation of any securities transaction or investment strategy involving
securities (including account recommendations) to a retail customer. to act in the best
interest of that retail customer at the time the recommendation is made. without placing
the financial or other interest of the broker, dealer, or associated person ahead of the
interest of the retail customer. Reg Bl"s Care Obligation. set forth at Exchange Act Rule
l 5/-l(a)(2)(ii). requires broker-dealers and their associated persons to exe rcise reasonable
diligence, care, and skill to, among other things, have a reasonable basis to believe that
the recommendation is in the best interest of a particular retail customer based on that
retail customer·s investment profile and the potential risks, rewards, and costs associated
with the recommendation. Regulation Bf defines a ..retail customer investment profile'· to
include. but not be limited to, the customer"s age. other investments. financial situation
and needs, tax status, investment objectives. investment experience, investment time
horizon, liquidity needs, risk tolerance, and any other information the customer may
disclose to the member or associated person in connection with such recommendation.
A recommendation may not be in the best interest of a customer if it results in a
concentration in a pa,ticular security or category of securities that creates a risk of loss
inconsistent with the customer·s investment profile.
Prior to June 30, 2020, FINRA Rule 2111 required members and associated persons to
have a reasonable basis to believe that a recommendation of a transaction or investment
strategy involving a security or securities to any customer is suitable for the customer,
based on the information obtained through the reasonable diligence of the member or
associated person to ascertain the customer' s investment profile. FINRA Rule 2111 is
still in effect, but as of June 30, 2020, it no longer applies to recommendations that are
subject to Reg BL FINRA Rule 2111 defines a customer's investment profile to include
the same information as under the Care Obligation.
A violation of Reg Bl or FINRA Rule 2111 also is a violation of FIN RA Rule 20 I 0.
which requires associated persons to ''observe high standards of commercial honor and
just and equitable principles of trade"' in the conduct of their business.

2

2. GWG Holdings, Inc.
GWG is a publicly traded financial services company. Prior to 2018. GWG purchased life
insurance policies through its subsidiaries on the secondary market. GWG continued to
pay the premiums for each policy that it purchased and collected the policy benefits upon
the insured·s death. Following a series oftransactions in 2018 and 2019 with Beneficient
Company Group, L.P., GWG reoriented its business, stopped acquiring life insurance
policies. and focused instead on developing a business model of providing liquidity to
holders of illiquid investments and alternative assets.
GWG had a history of net losses and had not generated s ufficient operating and investing
cash flows to fund its operations. To finance its operations, GWG offered corporate
bonds (known as L Bonds) to investors with varying maturity periods and interest rates. L
Bonds were not directly secured by GWG's life insurance portfolio and were not rated by
any bond rating agency.
GWG sold L Bonds to retail investors in four separate offerings and made those sales
through a network of broker-dealers, including WestPark, which entered into an
agreement with GWG to sell L Bonds in July 2016 and approved the product for sale by
its registered representatives. The offering documents for the third and fomth L Bond
offerings, which commenced in December 2017 and June 2020, respectively, stated the
bonds could be considered speculative, involved a high degree of risk. were illiquid, and
were only suitable for persons with substantial financial resources and with no need for
liquidity.
In Januaiy 2022. after Kunz's customers made investments in the L Bonds. GWG
defaulted on its obligations to L Bond investors and suspended further sales of L Bonds.
In April 2022, GWG filed for bankruptcy.

3. Kunz's Recommendations to the Customers

Customer A
In December 2015, Customer A opened an account at WestPark through Kunz. She
reported a moderate risk tolerance and had a liquid net worth of $428,000. Customer A's
stated investment objective was growth and income, and it did not include speculation.
Kunz recommended that Customer A invest $47,000 in GWG L Bonds from the third
offering in November 2019. Kunz earned $1,927 in commission in connection with this
recommendation. As a result of this investment, combined with prior investments
recommended by Kunz, the customer now had more than 65% of her liquid net worth in
alternative investments. Kunz's recommendation that the customer invest $47,000 in L
Bonds was not suitable for Customer A based on her investment profile, including her
moderate risk tolerance, in light of the high degree of risk associated with the L Bonds.
Therefore, Kunz violated FINRA Rules 2111 and 20 I 0.

3

Customer B
In July 2015, Customer B opened an account at WestPark through Kunz. She reported a
moderate risk tolerance, an annual income of less than $ I 00,000, and a liquid net worth
of $655,000. The customer's stated investment objective was income, and it did not
include speculation.
Kunz recommended that Customer B invest $50.000 in GWG L Bonds from the third
offering in March 2020. In February 2021, with the customer already having invested
$50,000 in L Bonds, Kunz recommended that the customer invest an additional $147,000
in the fourth offering of L Bonds. As a result of this investment. combined with the prior
L Bond investment Kunz recommended, Customer B now had more than 30% of her
liquid net worth invested in L Bonds. Kunz's recommendation that the customer invest an
additional $147,000 in L Bonds was not in Customer B · s best interest based on her
investment profile. including her moderate risk tolerance, in light of the high degree of
risk associated with the L Bonds. 2
Therefore, Kunz willfully violated Exc hange Act Rule 15/-1 (a)( I) and violated FINRA
Rule 2010.

8.

Respondent also consents to the imposition of the following sanctions:
•

a three-month suspension from associating with any FINRA member in all
capacities:

•

a $7.500 fine; and

•

partial restitution of $1.927 plus interest a described below. 3

Respondent agrees to pay the monetary sanctions upon notice that this A WC has been
accepted and that such payment is due and payable. Respondent has submitted an
Election of Payment form showing the method by which he proposes to pay the fine
imposed.
Partial restitution is ordered to be paid to the customer listed on Attachment A to this
A WC (Eligible Customer) in the total amount of $1,927. plus interest at the rate set forth
in Section 6621(a)(2) of the Internal Revenue Code. 26 U.S.C. § 6621(a)(2), from
November 22, 2019 until the date this A WC is accepted by the National Adjudicatory
Council (NAC).
Respondent shall submit satisfactory proof of payment of restitution and interest
(separately specifying the date and amount of each paid to the Eligible Customer) or of
reasonable and documented efforts undertaken to etlect restitution. Such proof shall be
~ Customer B brought and settled an arbitration against WestPark relating to her GWG L Bond investments. Kunz
contributed the funds for the settlement.
J The amount of partial restitution is equal to the commission received by Kunz for Customer A's L Bond purchase.

4

submitted by email to EnforcementNotice@ FlNRA.org. The email must identify
Respondent and the case number and include a copy of the check, money order. or other
method of payment. This proof shall be provided by email to
EnforcementNotice@ FINR,A.org no later than 120 days after the date of the notice of
acceptance of the A WC. ·
The restitution amount plus interest to be paid to the Eligible Customer shall be treated
by the Respondent as the Eligible Customer's property for purposes of state escheatment.
unclaimed property. abandoned property, and similar laws. If after reasonable and
documented efforts unde11aken to effect restitution Respondent is unable to pay the
Eligible Customer within 120 days after the date of the notice of acceptance of the A WC,
Respondent shall submit to FINRA in the manner described above a description of
Respondent's plan. not unacceptable to FINRA, to comply with the applicable
escheatment. unclaimed prope11y. abandoned property. or similar laws for the Eligible
Customer.
Respondent specifically and voluntarily waives any right to claim an inability to pay, now
or at any time after the execution of this A WC. the monetary sanctions imposed in this
matter.
The imposition of a restitution order or any other monetary sanction in this A WC, and the
timing of such ordered payments, does not preclude customers from pursuing their own
actions to obtain restitution or other remedies.
Respondent understands that if he is barred or suspended from associating with any
FlNRA member, he becomes subject to a statutory disqualification as that term is defined
in Article lll, Section 4 of FIN RA 's By-Laws. incorporating Section 3(a)(39) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Accordingly, he may not be associated with any
FINRA member in any capacity, including clerical or ministerial functions, during the
period of the bar or suspension. See FINRA Rules 8310 and 8311.
Respondent understands that this settlement includes a finding that he willfully violated
Rule I5/-1 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and that under Article UI, Section 4 of
FlNRA's By-Laws, this makes him subject to a statutory disqualification with respect to
association with a member.
The sanctions imposed in this AWC shall be effective on a date set by FINRA.

II.

W AIYER OF PROCEDURAL RIGHTS
Respondent specifically and voluntarily waives the following rights granted under FINRA 's
Code of Procedure:
A.

To have a complaint issued specifying the allegations against him;

5

B.

To be notified of the complaint and have the opportunity to answer the allegations
in writing;

C.

To defend against the allegations in a disciplinary hearing before a nearing panel,
to have a written record of the hearing made, and to have a written decision
issued; and

D.

To appeal any such decision to the NAC and then to the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission and a U.S. Court of Appeals.

Further. Respondent specifically and voluntarily waives any right to claim bias or prejudgment
of the Chief Legal Officer. the NAC. or any member of the NAC, in connection with such
person's or body's participation in discussions regarding the terms and conditions of this AWC,
or other consideration of this A WC. including its acceptance or rejection.
Respondent further specifically and voluntarily waives any right to claim that a person violated
the ex parte prohibitions of FINRA Rule 9143 or the separation of functions prohibitions of
FINRA Rule 9144. in connection with such person's or body's participation in discussions
regarding the terms and conditions of this A WC, or other consideration of this A WC, including
its acceptance or rejection.

Ill.

OTHER MATTERS
Respondent understands that:
A.

Submission of this A WC is voluntary and will not resolve this matter unless and
until it has been reviewed and accepted by the NAC. a Review Subcommittee of
the NAC, or the Office of Disciplinary Affairs (ODA), pursuant to FIN RA Rule
9216;

B.

If this AWC is not accepted. its submission will not be used as evidence to prove
any of the allegations against Respondent; and

C.

If accepted:
I.

this A WC will become part of Respondent's permanent disciplinary
record and may be considered in any future action brought by FINRA or
any other regulator against Respondent:

2.

this AWC will be made available through FINRA's public disclosure
program in accordance with FINRA Rule 8313;

3.

FINRA may make a public announcement concerning this agreement and
its subject matter in accordance with FINRA Rule 8313; and

6

4.

D.

Respondent may not take any action or make or permit to be made any
public statement. including in regulatory filings or otherwise, denying.
directly or indirectly. any finding in this AWC or create the impression
that the A WC is without factual basis. Respondent may not take any
position in any proceeding brought by or on behalf of FIN RA. or to which
FIN RA is a party, that is inconsistent with any part of this A WC. Nothing
in this provision affects Respondent's right to take legal or factual
positions in litigation or other legal proceedings in which FINRA is not a
party. Nothing in this provision affects Respondent"s testimonial
obligations in any litigation or other legal proceedings.

Respondent may attach a corrective action statement to this A WC that is a
statement of demonstrable corrective steps taken to prevent future misconduct.
Respondent understands that he may not deny the charges or make any statement
that is inconsistent with the A WC in this statement. This statement does not
constitute factual or legal findings by FINRA, nor does it reflect the views of
FINRA.

7

Respondent certifies that he has read and understands all or the provisions of this A WC and has
been given a full oppot1tmity to ask questions about it: Respondent has agreed to the A WC' s
pro\'isions voluntarily: and no offer. threat inducement. or promist'. of an) kind. other than the
terms set forth in this AWC and the prospect of a\ oiding the issuance of a complaint. has been
made to induce him to submit this AWC.

M~'--t"----

Respondent

Julie Kamps. Esq.
Counsel for Respondent
1800 Centttr) Park East. Suite 220
Los Angeles. California 90067

Accepted b) I !NRA:
Signed on behal r of the
Dirtctor of OI A. b} delegated authorit~

8/5/2024
Date

Seth Kean
Senior Counsel

FINRA
Department of Enforcement
13rook.field Place. 200 l. iben) Street
'\Jew Y ork. NY I 028 I

RESTITUTION SCHEDULE

Customer

Investment And Date

Restitution Amount
(exclusive of interest)

A

GWG L Bonds - November
22,2019

$1,927

