FINANCIAL INDUSTRY REGULATORY AUTHORITY
LETTER OF ACCEPTANCE, WAIVER, AND CONSENT
NO. 2021070498104
TO:

Department of Enforcement
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA)

RE:

Linda J. Wimsatt (Respondent)
Former General Securities Representative
CRD No. 1401802

Pursuant to FINRA Rule 9216, Respondent Linda J. Wimsatt submits this Letter of Acceptance,
Waiver, and Consent (AWC) for the purpose of proposing a settlement of the alleged rule
violations described below. This A WC is submitted on the condition that, if accepted, FINRA
will not bring any future actions against Respondent alleging violations based on the same
factual findings described in this A WC.

I.
ACCEPTANCE AND CONSENT

A.

Respondent accepts and consents to the following findings by FINRA without admitting
or denying them:
BACKGROUND
Wimsatt first became registered with FINRA as a General Securities Representative (GS)
in 1985, through an association with a FINRA member firm. From November 2017 to
October 2020, Wimsatt was registered as a GS and a General Securities Principal (GP)
through WestPark Capital, Inc. (CRD No. 39914). From November 2020 to January
2024, Wimsatt was registered with FINRA as a GS and GP through another member
firm.
Although Wimsatt is no longer registered or associated with any FINRA member firm,
she remains subject to FINRA's jurisdiction pursuant to Article V, Section 4 of FINRA's
By-Laws. 1
OVERVIEW
Wimsatt recommended that four retail customers invest in GWG L Bonds, which were
speculative, unrated corporate bonds. Wimsatt's recommendations to Customers Al and
A2 in January 2020 and Customers B 1 and B2 in April 2020 were unsuitable for the
customers based on their investment profiles. Wimsatt therefore violated FINRA Rules
2111 and 2010.

1

For more information about the respondent, visit BrokerCheck® at www.finra.org/brokercheck.

Wimsatt's recommendations to Customers Cl and C2 in September 2020 and Customer
D in August 2020 were not in the customers' best interests based on their investment
profiles. Wimsatt therefore willfully violated Rule 15/-l(a)(l) under the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934 (Reg BI) and violated FINRA Rule 2010.

FACTS AND VIOLATIVE CONDUCT

1. Legal Framework
As of June 30, 2020, broker-dealers and their associated persons are required to comply
with Regulation BI under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Rule 15/-l(a)(l) of Reg
BI requires a broker, dealer, or a natural person associated with a broker or dealer, when
making a recommendation of any securities transaction or investment strategy involving
securities (including account recommendations) to a retail customer, to act in the best
interest of that retail customer at the time the recommendation is made, without placing
the financial or other interest of the broker, dealer, or associated person ahead of the
interest of the retail customer. Reg Bi's Care Obligation, set forth at Exchange Act Rule
15/-1 (a)(2)(ii), requires broker-dealers and their associated persons to exercise reasonable
diligence, care, and skill to, among other things, have a reasonable basis to believe that
the recommendation is in the best interest of a particular retail customer based on that
retail customer's investment profile and the potential risks, rewards, and costs associated
with the recommendation. Regulation BI defines a "retail customer investment profile" to
include, but not be limited to, the customer's age, other investments, financial situation
and needs, tax status, investment objectives, investment experience, investment time
horizon, liquidity needs, risk tolerance, and any other information the customer may
disclose to the member or associated person in connection with such recommendation.
A recommendation may not be in the best interest of a customer if it results in a
concentration in a particular security or category of securities that creates a risk of loss
inconsistent with the customer's investment profile.
Prior to June 30, 2020, FINRA Rule 2111 required members and associated persons to
have a reasonable basis to believe that a recommendation of a transaction or investment
strategy involving a security or securities to any customer is suitable for the customer,
based on the information obtained through the reasonable diligence of the member or
associated person to ascertain the customer's investment profile. FINRA Rule 2111 is
still in effect, but as of June 30, 2020, it no longer applies to recommendations that are
subject to Reg Bl. FINRA Rule 2111 defines a customer's investment profile to include
the same information as under the Care Obligation.
A violation of Reg BI or FINRA Rule 2111 also is a violation of FINRA Rule 2010,
which requires associated persons to "observe high standards of commercial honor and
just and equitable principles of trade" in the conduct of their business.

2

2. GWG Holdings, Inc.
GWG is a publicly traded financial services company. Prior to 2018, GWG purchased life
insurance policies through its subsidiaries on the secondary market. GWG continued to
pay the premiums for each policy that it purchased and collected the policy benefits upon
the insured's death. Following a series of transactions in 2018 and 2019 with Beneficient
Company Group, L.P., GWG reoriented its business, stopped acquiring life insurance
policies, and focused instead on developing a business model of providing liquidity to
holders of illiquid investments and alternative assets.
GWG had a history of net losses and had not generated sufficient operating and investing
cash flows to fund its operations. To finance its operations, GWG offered L Bonds to
investors with varying maturity periods and interest rates. L Bonds were not directly
secured by GWG's life insurance portfolio and were not rated by any bond rating agency.
GWG sold L Bonds to retail investors in four separate offerings and made those sales
through a network of broker-dealers, including WestPark, which entered into an
agreement with GWG to sell L Bonds in July 2016 and approved the product for sale by
its registered representatives. The offering documents for the third and fourth L Bond
offerings, which commenced in December 2017 and June 2020, respectively, stated the
bonds could be considered speculative, involved a high degree of risk, were illiquid, and
were only suitable for persons with substantial financial resources and with no need for
liquidity.
In January 2022, after Wimsatt's customers made investments in the L Bonds, GWG
defaulted on its obligations to L Bond investors and suspended further sales ofL Bonds.
In April 2022, GWG filed for bankruptcy.

3. Wimsatt's Recommendations to the Customers
Customers Al and A2 and Bl and B2
Customers Al and A2 are a senior retired married couple with a moderate risk tolerance,
an annual income of $84,000, and a liquid net worth of $415,000. The customers' stated
investment objective was income, and it did not include speculation.
Wimsatt recommended that Customers Al and A2 invest $100,000 in GWG L Bonds
from the third offering in January 2020. Wimsatt earned $2,632.50 in commission in
connection with this recommendation. As a result of the investment, the customers had
24% of their liquid net worth invested in GWG L Bonds. Wimsatt's recommendation that
the customers invest $100,000 in L Bonds was not suitable for Customers Al and A2
based on their investment profile, including their moderate risk tolerance, in light of the
high degree of risk associated with the L Bonds.

3

Customers B 1 and B2 are a married couple with a moderate risk tolerance, annual income
of $320,000, and a liquid net worth of $2 million. The customers' stated investment
objective was growth, and it did not include speculation.
Between December 2018 and January 2020, Wimsatt recommended that Customers B 1
and B2 make three investments totaling $425,000 in L Bonds from the third offering. In
April 2020, with the customers already having invested $425,000 in L Bonds, Wimsatt
recommended that the customers invest an additional $200,000 in the third offering of L
Bonds. Wimsatt earned $8,036 in commission in connection with this recommendation.
As a result of this investment, combined with the prior L Bond investments Wimsatt
recommended, the customers had more than 30% of their liquid net worth invested in L
Bonds. Wimsatt's recommendation that the customers invest an additional $200,000 in L
Bonds was not suitable for Customers B 1 and B2 based on their investment profile,
including their moderate risk tolerance, in light of the high degree of risk associated with
the L Bonds.
Therefore, Wimsatt's recommendations to Customers Al and A2, and B 1 and B2
violated FINRA Rules 2111 and 2010.

Customers CJ and C2 and D
Customers C 1 and C2 are a senior married couple with a moderate risk tolerance, an
annual income of $250,000, and a liquid net worth of $2.24 million. The customers'
stated investment objective was income and growth, and it did not include speculation.
Wimsatt recommended that Customers Cl and C2 invest $300,000 in GWG L Bonds
from the third offering in October 2019. In September 2020, with the customers already
having invested $300,000 in L Bonds, Wimsatt recommended that the customers invest
an additional $200,000 in the fourth offering ofL Bonds. Wimsatt received $8,500 in
commission in connection with this recommendation. As a result of this investment,
combined with the prior L Bond investment Wimsatt recommended, Customers C 1 and
C2 had 22% of their liquid net worth invested in L Bonds. Wimsatt's recommendation
that the customers invest an additional $200,000 in L Bonds was not in Customers C 1
and C2's best interest based on their investment profile, including their moderate risk
tolerance, in light of the high degree of risk associated with the L Bonds.
Customer D, a senior investor, had a moderate risk tolerance, an annual income of
$65,000, and a liquid net worth of $1 million. The customer's stated investment objective
was income, and it did not include speculation.
Wimsatt recommended that Customer D invest $66,936 in GWG L Bonds from the third
offering in January 2019. In August 2020, with the customer already having invested
$66,936 in L Bonds, Wimsatt recommended that the customer invest an additional
$50,000 in the fourth offering ofL Bonds. Wimsatt earned $1,806.25 in commission in
connection with this recommendation. As a result of this investment, combined with the
prior L Bond investment Wimsatt recommended, Customer D had more than 11 % of her
4

liquid net worth invested in L Bonds. Wimsatt' s recommendation that the customer
invest an additional $50,000 in L Bonds was not in Customer D's best interest based on
her investment profile, including her moderate risk tolerance, in light of the high degree
of risk associated with the L Bonds.
Therefore, with respect to Wimsatt's recommendations to Customers Cl and C2, and D,
Wimsatt willfully violated Exchange Act Rule 15/-l(a)(l) and violated FINRA Rule
2010.
B.

Respondent also consents to the imposition of the following sanctions:
■

a four-month suspension from associating with any FINRA member in all
capacities;

■

a $10,000 fine; and

•

partial restitution of $20,974.75 plus interest as described below. 2

The fine shall be due and payable either immediately upon reassociation with a member
firm or prior to any application or request for relief from any statutory disqualification
resulting from this or any other event or proceeding, whichever is earlier.
Partial restitution is ordered to be paid to the customers listed on Attachment A to this
AWC (Eligible Customers) in the total amount of $20,974.75, plus interest at the rate set
forth in Section 6621(a)(2) of the Internal Revenue Code, 26 U.S.C. § 6621(a)(2), from
September 24, 2020, until the date the restitution plus interest are due and payable.
Restitution plus interest ordered pursuant to this disciplinary action are due and payable
immediately upon reassociation with a member firm or upon submission of any
application or request for relief from any statutory disqualification resulting from this or
any other event or proceeding, whichever is earlier.
Respondent shall submit satisfactory proof of payment of restitution and interest
(separately specifying the date and amount of each paid to each Eligible Customer) or of
reasonable and documented efforts undertaken to effect restitution. Such proof shall be
submitted by email to EnforcementNotice@FINRA.org. The email must identify
Respondent and the case number and include a copy of the check, money order, or other
method of payment. This proof shall be provided by email to
EnforcementNotice@FINRA.org no later than 120 days after the date the restitution plus
interest are due and payable.
The restitution amount plus interest to be paid to each Eligible Customer shall be treated
by the Respondent as the Eligible Customer's property for purposes of state escheatment,
unclaimed property, abandoned property, and similar laws. If after reasonable and
2

The amount of partial restitution is equal to the commission received by Wimsatt for the L Bond sales to
Customers Al and A2, Bl and B2, Cl and C2, and D.

5

documented efforts undertaken to effect restitution Respondent is unable to pay all
Eligible Customers within 120 days after the restitution and interest are due and payable,
Respondent shall submit to FINRA in the manner described above a list of the unpaid
Eligible Customers and a description of Respondent's plan, not unacceptable to FINRA,
to comply with the applicable escheatment, unclaimed property, abandoned property, or
similar laws for each such Eligible Customer.
Respondent specifically and voluntarily waives any right to claim an inability to pay, now
or at any time after the execution of this AWC, the monetary sanctions imposed in this
matter.
The imposition of a restitution order or any other monetary sanctions in this A WC, and
the timing of such ordered payments, does not preclude customers from pursuing their
own actions to obtain restitution or other remedies.
Respondent understands that if she is barred or suspended from associating with any
FINRA member, she becomes subject to a statutory disqualification as that term is
defined in Article III, Section 4 of FINRA's By-Laws, incorporating Section 3(a)(39) of
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Accordingly, she may not be associated with any
FINRA member in any capacity, including clerical or ministerial functions, during the
period of the bar or suspension. See FINRA Rules 8310 and 8311.
Respondent understands that this settlement includes a finding that she willfully violated
Rule 15/-1 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and that under Article III, Section 4 of
FINRA's By-Laws, this makes her subject to a statutory disqualification with respect to
association with a member.
The sanctions imposed in this A WC shall be effective on a date set by FINRA.

II.
WAIVER OF PROCEDURAL RIGHTS
Respondent specifically and voluntarily waives the following rights granted under FINRA' s
Code of Procedure:
A.

To have a complaint issued specifying the allegations against her;

B.

To be notified of the complaint and have the opportunity to answer the allegations
in writing;

C.

To defend against the allegations in a disciplinary hearing before a hearing panel,
to have a written record of the hearing made, and to have a written decision
issued; and

D.

To appeal any such decision to the NAC and then to the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission and a U.S. Court of Appeals.
6

Further, Respondent specifically and voluntarily waives any right to claim bias or prejudgment
of the Chief Legal Officer, the NAC, or any member of the NAC, in connection with such
person's or body's participation in discussions regarding the terms and conditions of this AWC,
or other consideration of this AWC, including its acceptance or rejection.
Respondent further specifically and voluntarily waives any right to claim that a person violated
the ex parte prohibitions of FINRA Rule 9143 or the separation of functions prohibitions of
FINRA Rule 9144, in connection with such person's or body's participation in discussions
regarding the terms and conditions of this AWC, or other consideration of this AWC, including
its acceptance or rejection.

III.
OTHER MATTERS
Respondent understands that:
A.

Submission of this A WC is voluntary and will not resolve this matter unless and
until it has been reviewed and accepted by the NAC, a Review Subcommittee of
the NAC, or the Office of Disciplinary Affairs (ODA), pursuant to FINRA Rule
9216;

B.

If this A WC is not accepted, its submission will not be used as evidence to prove
any of the allegations against Respondent; and

C.

If accepted:
1.

this A WC will become part of Respondent's permanent disciplinary
record and may be considered in any future action brought by FINRA or
any other regulator against Respondent;

2.

this AWC will be made available through FINRA's public disclosure
program in accordance with FINRA Rule 8313;

3.

FINRA may make a public announcement concerning this agreement and
its subject matter in accordance with FINRA Rule 8313; and

4.

Respondent may not take any action or make or permit to be made any
public statement, including in regulatory filings or otherwise, denying,
directly or indirectly, any finding in this AWC or create the impression
that the A WC is without factual basis. Respondent may not take any
position in any proceeding brought by or on behalf of FINRA, or to which
FINRA is a party, that is inconsistent with any part of this A WC. Nothing
in this provision affects Respondent's right to take legal or factual
positions in litigation or other legal proceedings in which FINRA is not a

7

party. Nothing in this provision affects Respondent's testimonial
obligations in any litigation or other legal proceedings.
D.

Respondent may attach a corrective action statement to this A WC that is a
statement of demonstrable corrective steps taken to prevent future misconduct.
Respondent understands that she may not deny the charges or make any statement
that is inconsistent with the A WC in this statement. This statement does not
constitute factual or legal findings by FINRA, nor does it reflect the views of
FINRA.

8

Respondent certifies that she has read and understands all of the provisions of this AWC and has
been given a full opportunity to ask questions about it; Respondent has agreed to the A WC's
provisions voluntarily; and no offer, threat, inducement, or promise of any kind, other than the
terms set forth in this A WC and the prospect of a voiding the issuance of a complaint, has been

mad~~1:~t~submil
Date /

~ ~ ~......-----------··-

this AWC.

j

Reviewed by:

Michael Sc artzberg, Esq.
Counsel for Respondent
Winget, Spadafora & Schwartzberg LLP
45 Broadway, 32 nd Floor
New York, NY 10006

Accepted by FINRA:
Signed on behalf of the
Director of ODA, by delegated authority

11/15/2024
Date

Seth Kean
Senior Counsel
FINRA
Department of Enforcement
Brookfield Place, 200 Liberty Street
New York, NY 10281

9

RESTITUTION SCHEDULE

Customer

Investment And Date

Al and A2

GWG L Bonds - January
2020
GWG L Bonds - April 2020
GWG L Bonds - September
2020
GWG L Bonds - August
2020

Bl and B2
Cl and C2
D

Restitution Amount
(exclusive of interest)
$2,632.50

$8,036.00
$8,500.00
$1,806.25

