FINANCIAL INDUSTRY REGULATORY AUTHORITY
LETTER OF ACCEPTANCE, WAIVER, AND CONSENT
NO. 2021069277101
TO:

Department of Enforcement
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA)

RE:

Harpeth Securities, LLC (Respondent)
Member Firm
CRD No. 109821

Pursuant to FINRA Rule 9216, Respondent Harpeth Securities, LLC submits this Letter of
Acceptance, Waiver, and Consent (AWC) for the purpose of proposing a settlement of the
alleged rule violations described below. This AWC is submitted on the condition that, if
accepted, FINRA will not bring any future actions against Respondent alleging violations based
on the same factual findings described in this AWC.
I.
ACCEPTANCE AND CONSENT
A.

Respondent accepts and consents to the following findings by FINRA without admitting
or denying them:
BACKGROUND
Harpeth Securities became a FINRA member firm in 2001. The firm, which is
headquartered in Nashville, Tennessee, has one office, and three registered
representatives. The firm acts as a placement agent for private placement offerings.1
OVERVIEW
From June 30, 2020, to April 22, 2022, Harpeth Securities failed to establish and
maintain a supervisory system, and to establish, maintain, and enforce written policies
and procedures, reasonably designed to achieve compliance with Exchange Act Rule 15l1 (Regulation Best Interest or Reg BI). As a result, Harpeth Securities willfully violated
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 Rule 15l-1 and violated FINRA Rules 3110 and 2010.
During this period, Harpeth Securities also failed to establish and maintain a supervisory
system, including written supervisory procedures (WSPs), reasonably designed to
achieve compliance with its Exchange Act Rule 17a-14 obligations to prepare, file, and
deliver its customer relationship summary (Form CRS). As a result, Harpeth Securities
violated FINRA Rules 3110 and 2010.

1

For more information about the firm, visit BrokerCheck® at www.finra.org/brokercheck.

FACTS AND VIOLATIVE CONDUCT
This matter originated from a firm examination of Harpeth Securities.
A.

Harpeth Securities failed to establish written policies and procedures, and a
supervisory system, reasonably designed to achieve compliance with
Regulation Best Interest.

As of June 30, 2020, broker-dealers and their associated persons are required to comply
with Reg BI under the Exchange Act. Reg BI requires a broker, dealer, or a natural
person associated with a broker or dealer, when making a recommendation of any
securities transaction or investment strategy involving securities (including account
recommendations) to a retail customer, to act in the best interest of that retail customer at
the time the recommendation is made, without placing the financial or other interest of
the broker, dealer, or associated person ahead of the interest of the retail customer.
Reg BI’s Compliance Obligation, set forth at Exchange Act Rule 15l-1(a)(2)(iv), requires
a broker-dealer to establish, maintain, and enforce written policies and procedures
reasonably designed to achieve compliance with Reg BI. Reg BI’s Adopting Release
provides that broker-dealers should consider the nature of the firm’s operations and how
to design such policies and procedures to prevent violations from occurring, to detect
violations that have occurred, and to correct promptly any violations that have occurred. 2
FINRA Rule 3110 requires member firms to establish, maintain, and enforce a
supervisory system, including WSPs, to supervise the activities of each associated person
that is reasonably designed to achieve compliance with applicable securities laws,
regulations, and FINRA rules.
A violation of Exchange Act Rule 15l-1 and FINRA Rule 3110 also is a violation of
FINRA Rule 2010, which requires member firms to observe high standards of
commercial honor and just and equitable principles of trade in the conduct of their
business.
During the period June 30, 2020, to April 22, 2022, Harpeth Securities acted as a
placement agent for two private placements, recommending them to approximately 490
retail investors. Nonetheless, the firm failed until April 22, 2022, to establish, maintain,
and enforce a supervisory system, including WSPs, reasonably designed to achieve
compliance with Reg BI.3 Despite the firm’s awareness of Reg BI’s June 30, 2020,
implementation date, the firm’s written policies and procedures contained no provisions
relating to Reg BI during this period.

2

Regulation Best Interest: The Broker-Dealer Standard of Conduct, Exchange Act Release No. 86031, 84 FR 33318
at 33397 (July 12, 2019).
3

Harpeth Securities established written policies and procedures relating to Reg BI after FINRA initiated its
investigation in this matter.

2

Therefore, Harpeth Securities willfully violated Exchange Act Rule 15l-1 and violated
FINRA Rules 3110 and 2010.
B.

Harpeth Securities failed to establish a supervisory system, including written
supervisory procedures, reasonably designed to achieve compliance with its
Form CRS obligations.

On June 5, 2019, the Securities and Exchange Commission adopted Form CRS and rules
creating new requirements—which include requirements to prepare, file, and deliver the
Form CRS—for SEC-registered broker-dealers offering services to a retail investor. The
compliance date for Form CRS was June 30, 2020.
Form CRS provides customers with information about the types of services the firm
offers; the fees, costs, conflicts of interest, and required standard of conduct associated
with those services; whether the firm and its investment professionals have reportable
legal or disciplinary history; and how to get more information about the firm.
From June 30, 2020, to April 22, 2022, Harpeth Securities failed to establish and
maintain a supervisory system, including WSPs, reasonably designed to achieve
compliance with its Form CRS requirements. During this period, the firm’s written
supervisory procedures contained no provisions relating to Form CRS.4
Therefore, Harpeth Securities violated FINRA Rules 3110 and 2010.
B.

Respondent also consents to the imposition of the following sanctions:


a censure and



a $35,000 fine.

Respondent agrees to pay the monetary sanction upon notice that this AWC has been
accepted and that such payment is due and payable. Respondent has submitted an
Election of Payment form showing the method by which it proposes to pay the fine
imposed.
Respondent specifically and voluntarily waives any right to claim an inability to pay, now
or at any time after the execution of this AWC, the monetary sanction imposed in this
matter.
Respondent understands that this settlement includes a finding that it willfully violated
Exchange Act Rule 15l-1, and that under Article III, Section 4 of FINRA’s By-Laws, this
makes Respondent subject to a statutory disqualification with respect to membership.
The sanctions imposed in this AWC shall be effective on a date set by FINRA.

4

Harpeth Securities established written policies and procedures relating to Form CRS after FINRA initiated its
investigation in this matter.

3

II.
WAIVER OF PROCEDURAL RIGHTS
Respondent specifically and voluntarily waives the following rights granted under FINRA’s
Code of Procedure:
A.

To have a complaint issued specifying the allegations against it;

B.

To be notified of the complaint and have the opportunity to answer the allegations
in writing;

C.

To defend against the allegations in a disciplinary hearing before a hearing panel,
to have a written record of the hearing made, and to have a written decision
issued; and

D.

To appeal any such decision to the National Adjudicatory Council (NAC) and
then to the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission and a U.S. Court of
Appeals.

Further, Respondent specifically and voluntarily waives any right to claim bias or prejudgment
of the Chief Legal Officer, the NAC, or any member of the NAC, in connection with such
person’s or body’s participation in discussions regarding the terms and conditions of this AWC,
or other consideration of this AWC, including its acceptance or rejection.
Respondent further specifically and voluntarily waives any right to claim that a person violated
the ex parte prohibitions of FINRA Rule 9143 or the separation of functions prohibitions of
FINRA Rule 9144, in connection with such person’s or body’s participation in discussions
regarding the terms and conditions of this AWC, or other consideration of this AWC, including
its acceptance or rejection.
III.
OTHER MATTERS
Respondent understands that:
A.

Submission of this AWC is voluntary and will not resolve this matter unless and
until it has been reviewed and accepted by the NAC, a Review Subcommittee of
the NAC, or the Office of Disciplinary Affairs (ODA), pursuant to FINRA Rule
9216;

B.

If this AWC is not accepted, its submission will not be used as evidence to prove
any of the allegations against Respondent; and

4

C.

D.

If accepted:
1.

this AWC will become part of Respondent’s permanent disciplinary
record and may be considered in any future action brought by FINRA or
any other regulator against Respondent;

2.

this AWC will be made available through FINRA’s public disclosure
program in accordance with FINRA Rule 8313;

3.

FINRA may make a public announcement concerning this agreement and
its subject matter in accordance with FINRA Rule 8313; and

4.

Respondent may not take any action or make or permit to be made any
public statement, including in regulatory filings or otherwise, denying,
directly or indirectly, any finding in this AWC or create the impression
that the AWC is without factual basis. Respondent may not take any
position in any proceeding brought by or on behalf of FINRA, or to which
FINRA is a party, that is inconsistent with any part of this AWC. Nothing
in this provision affects Respondent’s right to take legal or factual
positions in litigation or other legal proceedings in which FINRA is not a
party. Nothing in this provision affects Respondent’s testimonial
obligations in any litigation or other legal proceedings.

Respondent may attach a corrective action statement to this AWC that is a
statement of demonstrable corrective steps taken to prevent future misconduct.
Respondent understands that it may not deny the charges or make any statement
that is inconsistent with the AWC in this statement. This statement does not
constitute factual or legal findings by FINRA, nor does it reflect the views of
FINRA.

The undersigned, on behalf of Respondent, certifies that a person duly authorized to act on
Respondent’s behalf has read and understands all of the provisions of this AWC and has been
given a full opportunity to ask questions about it; that Respondent has agreed to the AWC’s
provisions voluntarily; and that no offer, threat, inducement, or promise of any kind, other than
the terms set forth in this AWC and the prospect of avoiding the issuance of a complaint, has
been made to induce Respondent to submit this AWC.

5

May 17, 2023

Date

____________________________________
Harpeth Securities, LLC
Respondent
Print Name:

Charles W. Byrge II

Title: Chief Compliance Officer

Accepted by FINRA:
Signed on behalf of the
Director of ODA, by delegated authority

May 19, 2023

Date

Rebecca Segrest
Senior Counsel
FINRA
Department of Enforcement
303 Perimeter Center North, Suite 550
Atlanta, GA 30346

6

