FINANCIAL INDUSTRY REGULATORY AUTHORITY
LETTER OF ACCEPTANCE, WAIVER, AND CONSENT
NO.2021070498102
TO:

Department of Enforcement
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA)

RE:

Alan Mason (Respondent)
General Securities Representative
CRD No. 1302190

Pursuant to FINRA Rule 9216, Respondent Alan Mason submits this Letter of Acceptance,
Waiver. and Consent (AWC) for the purpose of proposing a settlement of the alleged rule
violations described below. This A WC is submitted on the condition that. if accepted, FINRA
will not bring any future actions against Respondent alleging violations based on the same
factual findings described in this AWC.
I.

ACCEPTANCE AND CONSENT
A.

Respondent accepts and consents to the following findings by FINRA without admitting
or denying them:

BACKGROUND
Mason first became registered with FINRA as a General Securities Representative (GS)
in 1984, through an association with a FlNRA member firm. From March 2018 to March
2023, he was registered as a GS, General Securities Principal (GP), Investment Company
and Variable Contracts Products Representative (IR), and General Securities Sales
Supervisor (SU) through WestPark Capital, Inc. (CRD No. 39914). Since March 2023, he
has been registered as a GS, GP, IR, and SU through a different FINRA member finn. 1

OVERVIEW
In July 2020, while associated with WestPark. Mason recommended that a retail
customer invest at least 20% percent of her liquid net worth in a speculative, unrated debt
security. This recommendation was not in the customer's best interest based on her
investment profile. Therefore, Mason willfully violated Rule 15/-1 (a)( I) under the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (Reg Bl) and violated FINRA Rule 2010.

1

For more information about the respondent, visit BrokcrCheck® at www.finra.org/brokercheck.

FACTS AND VIOLATIVE CONDUCT
l. Legal Framework
As of June 30, 2020, broker-dealers and their associated persons are required to comply
with Regulation BI under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Rule 15/-1 (a)( 1} of Reg
Bl requires a broker, dealer, or a natural person associated with a broker or dealer, when
making a recommendation of any securities transaction or invesbnent strategy involving
securities (including account recommendations) to a retail customer, to act in the best
interest of that retail customer at the time the recommendation is made, without placing
the financial or other interest of the broker, dealer. or associated person ahead of the
interest of the retail customer. Reg Br's Care Obligation, set forth at Exchange Act Rule
55/-1 (a)(2)(ii), requires broker-dealers and their associated persons to exercise reasonable
diligence, care, and skill to, among other things, have a reasonable basis to believe that
the recommendation is in the best interest of a panicular retail customer based on that
retail customer's investment profile and the potential risks, rewards, and costs associated
with the recommendation. Regulation BI defines a "retail customer investment profile" to
include. but not be limited to, the customer's age, other investments, financial situation
and needs, tax. status, investment objectives, investment experience, investment time
horizon, liquidity needs, risk tolerance, and any other infonnation the customer may
disclose to the member or associated person in connection with such recommendation.
A recommendation may not be in the best of interest of a customer if it results in a
concentration in a particular security or category of securities that creates a risk of loss
inconsistent with the customer's investment profile.
A violation of Reg Bl also is a violation of FJNRA Rule 20IO, which requires associated
persons to ·"observe high standards of commercial honor and just and equitable principles
of trade" in the conduct of their business.

2. GWG Holdings, Inc.
GWG is a publicly traded financial services company. Prior to 2018, GWG purchased lifr
insurance policies through its subsidiaries on the secondary market. GWG continued to
pay the premiums for each policy that it purchased and collected the policy benefits upon
the insured's death. Following a series of transactions in 2018 and 2019 with Beneficient
Company Group, L.P., GWG reoriented its business. stopped acquiring life insurance
policies, and focused instead on developing a business model of providing liquidity to
holders of illiquid investments and alternative assets.
GWG had a history of net losses and had not generated sufficient operating and investing
cash flows to fund its operations. To finance its operations, GWG offered corporate
bonds (known as L Bonds) to investors with varying maturity periods and interest rates. L
Bonds were not directly secured by GWG's life insurance portfolio and were not rated by
any bond rating agency.

GWG sold L Bonds to retail investors in four separate offerings and made those sales
through a network of broker-dealers, including WestPark. which entered into an
agreement with GWG to sell L Bonds in July 2016 and approved the product for sale by
its registered representatives. The offering documents for the third and fourth L Bond
offerings. which commenced in December 20 I 7 and June 2020, respectively, stated the
bonds could be considered speculative, involved a high degree of risk, were illiquid, and
were only suitable for persons with substantial financial resources and with no need for
liquidity.
In January 2022, after Mason's customer made two investments in the L Bonds, GWG
defaulted on its obligations to L Bond investors and suspended further sales of L Bonds.
In April 2022, GWG filed for bankruptcy.

3. Mason's Recommendations to the Customer
In February 2020, Mason's customer opened an individual account at WestPark through
Mason. She reported a moderate risk tolerance and a liquid net worth between $200,00 I
and $500,000. The customer's stated investment objective was growth and income, and it
did not include speculation.
Mason recommended that the customer invest $50,000 in GWG L Bonds from the third
offering in February 2020. In July 2020, with the customer having already invested
$50,000 in L Bonds, Mason recommended that the customer invest an additional $50,000
in the fourth offering of L Bonds. As a resull of this investment, combined with the prior
L Bond investment Mason recommended. the customer now had at least 20% of her
liquid net worth invested in L Bonds. Mason earned $1,324.38 in commission in
connection with the July 2020 recommendation. 2 Mason's recommendation that the
customer invest an additional $50,000 in L Bonds was not in her best interest based on
her investment profile. including her moderate risk tolerance, in light of the high degree
of risk associated with the L Bonds.
Therefore. Mason willfully violated Exchange Act Rule 15/-1 (a)( I) and violated FINRA
Rule 2010.
B.

Respondent also consents to the imposition of the following sanctions:
•

a tw~month suspension from associating with any FINRA member in all
capacities;

•

a $5.000 fine; and

•

disgorgement of$ I ,324.38 plus interest as described below.

Respondent agrees to pay the monetary sanctions upon notice that this A WC has been
accepted and that such payment is due and payable. Respondent has submitted an
~ The customer brought and senled an arbitration against WestPark relating to her GWG L Bond investments.

3

Election of Payment fonn showing the method by which he proposes to pay the fine
imposed.
Disgorgement of commissions received is ordered to be paid to FINRA in the amount of
$1,324.38, plus interest at the rate set forth in Section 6621 (a)(2) of the Internal Revenue
Code, 26 U.S.C. § 6621 from July 20, 2020 until the date this AWC is accepted by the
National Adjudicatory Council (NAC).
Respondent specifically and voluntarily waives any right to claim an inability to pay, now
or at any time after the execution of this AWC, the monetary sanctions imposed in this
matter.
Respondent understands that if he is barred or suspended from associating with any
FINRA member, he becomes subject to a statutory disqualification as that term is defined
in Article Ill, Section 4 of FlNRA' s By-Laws, incorporating Section 3(a)(39) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Accordingly. he may not be associated with any
FINRA member in any capacity, including clerical or ministerial functions, during the
period of the bar or suspension. See FINRA Rules 8310 and 83 t I.
Respondent understands that this settlement includes a finding that he willfully violated
Rule 15/-1 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and that under Article Ill, Section 4 of
FINRA's By-Laws. this makes him subject to a statutory disqualification with respect to
association with a member.
The sanctions imposed in this AWC shall be effective on a date set by FINRA.
II.

WAIVER OF PROCEDURAL RIGHTS
Respondent specifically and voluntarily waives the following rights granted under FINRA's
Code of Procedure:
A.

To have a complaint issued specifying the allegations against him;

B.

To be notified of the complaint and have the opportunity to answer the allegations
in writing;

C.

To defend against the allegations in a disciplinary hearing before a hearing panel,
to have a written record of the hearing made, and to have a written decision
issued; and

D.

To appeal any such decision to the NAC and then to the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission and a U.S. Court of Appeals.

Further, Respondent specifically and voluntarily waives any right to claim bias or prejudgment
of the Chief Legal Officer. the NAC, or any member of the NAC 1 in connection with such

4

\

person's or body's participation in discussions regarding the tenns and conditions of this AWC,
or other consideration of this AWC. including its acceptance or rejection.
Respondent further specifically and voluntarily waives any right to claim that a person violated
the ex parte prohibitions of FINRA Rule 9143 or the separation of functions prohibitions of
FINRA Rule 9144. in connection with such person's or body's participation in discussions
regarding the tenns and conditions of this A WC, or other consideration of this AWC, including
its acceptance or rejection.
Ill.
OTHER MATTERS

Respondent understands that:
A.

Submission of this AWC is voluntary and will not resolve this matter unless and
until it has been reviewed and accepted by the NAC, a Review Subcommittee of
the NAC, or the Office of Disciplinary Affairs (ODA), pursuant to FINRA Rule
9216;

B.

If this AWC is not accepted. its submission will not be used as evidence to prove
any of the allegations against Respondent; and

C.

If accepted:
I.

this AWC will become part of Respondent's permanent disciplinary
record and may be considered in any future action brought by FINRA or
any other regulator against Respondent;

2.

this AWC will be made available through FINRA ·s public disclosure
program in accordance with FINRA Rule 8313;

3.

FIN RA may make a public announcement conceming this agreement and
its subject matter in accordance with FINRA Rule 8313; and

4.

Respondent may not take any action or make or pennit to be made any
public statement, including in regulatory filings or otherwise, denying,
directly or indirectly, any finding in this A WC or create the impression
that the AWC is without factual basis. Respondent may not take any
position in any proceeding brought by or on behalf of FINRA, or to which
FINRA is a party, that is inconsistent with any part of this AWC. Nothing
in this provision affects Respondent's right to take legal or factual
positions in litigation or other legal proceedings in which FINRA is not a
party. Nothing in this provision affects Respondent's testimonial
obligations in any litigation or other legal proceedings.

s

D.

Respondent may auach a corrective action statement to this AWC that is a
statement of demonstrable com:ctive steps taken to prevent future misconduct
Respondent understands that he may not deny the cbaraes or make any statement
that is inconsistent wi1b the AWC in this statement This statement does not
constitute factual or legal findings by FINRA. nor does it reflect the views of
FINRA.

Respondent cc:rtifies that he has read and understands all of the provisions of this AWC and has
been given a full opportunity to ask questions about it; Respondent bas agreed to the AWC's
provisions voluntarily; and no offer. threat, inducement, or promise ofany kind, other than the
terms set forth in this AWC and the prospect of avoiding the is.mance of a complaint, has been
made to induce him to submit this AWC.

Alan Mason
Respondent
Reviewed by~

Rhonda Leonard, Esq.
Counsel for Respondent
110 Pondview Lane

New Rochelle, NY 10804
Accepted by FINRA:

Signed on behalfof the
Director of ODA. by delegated authority

Date

J

Seth Kean
Senior Counsel

FINRA

Department of Enforcement
Brookfield Place, 200 Liberty Street
New York. NY 10281

6

D.

Respondent may attach a corrective action statement lo this A WC that is a
statement of demonstrable corrective steps taken to prevent future misconduct.
Respondent understands that he may not deny the charges or make any statement
that is inconsistent with the A WC in this statement. This statement does not
constitute factual or legal findings by FINRA, nor does it reflect the views of
FINRA.

Respondent certifies that he has read and understands all of the provisions of this AWC and has
been given a full opportunity to ask questions about it; Respondent has agreed to the AWC's
provisions voluntarily; and no offer, threat, inducement, or promise of any kind. other than the
tenns set forth in this A WC and the prospect of avoiding the issuance of a complaint, has been
made to induce him to submit this AWC.

Date

Alan Mason
Respondent

Reviewed by:

Rhonda Leonard, Esq.
Counsel for Respondent
110 Pondview Lane
New Rochelle, NY 10804
Accepted by FINRA:
Signed on behalf of the
Director of ODA, by delegated authority

Date

Seth Kean
Senior Counsel
FINRA
Department of Enforcement
Brookfield Place. 200 Liberty Street
New York. NY I 0281

6

