FINANCIAL INDUSTRY REGULATORY AUTHORITY
LETTER OF ACCEPTANCE, WAIVER, AND CONSENT
NO. 2021072107601
TO:

Department of Enforcement
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA)

RE:

Aaron Capital Incorporated (Respondent)
Member Firm
CRD No. 28583

Pursuant to FINRA Rule 9216, Respondent Aaron Capital Incorporated submits this Letter of
Acceptance, Waiver, and Consent (AWC) for the purpose of proposing a settlement of the
alleged rule violations described below. This A WC is submitted on the condition that, if
accepted, FINRA will not bring any future actions against Respondent alleging violations based
on the same factual findings described in this AWC.

I.
ACCEPTANCE AND CONSENT
A.

Respondent accepts and consents to the following findings by FIN RA without admitting
or denying them:

BACKGROUND
Aaron Capital Incorporated became a FINRA member firm in 1991. The firm is in
Columbus, Georgia, and has approximately 10 registered representatives. The firm
provides services to retail customers, but its primary revenue comes from its participation
in mergers and acquisitions. 1
OVERVIEW
Aaron Capital failed to timely file and deliver to retail investors a client relationship
summary (Form CRS) on or before June 30, 2020. As a result, Aaron Capital willfully
violated Exchange Act Section 17(a)(l) and Rule 17a-14 thereunder, and FINRA Rules
451 l and 2010. In addition, Aaron Capital failed to have a reasonably designed system,
including written supervisory procedures (WSPs), to achieve compliance with the firm's
obligation under Exchange Act Rule l 7a-14 related to preparing, filing, and delivering its
Form CRS in accordance with the rules, which violated FINRA Rules 3 11 0(a) and 20 I 0.

1

For more information about the firm, including prior regulatory events, visit BrokerCheck® at
www.finra.org/brokercheck.

FACTS AND VIOLATIVE CONDUCT

This matter originated from the finn's 2021 examination.
Aaron Capital Failed to Timely File and Deliver Form CRS

On June 5, 2019, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) adopted Form CRS
and rules creating new requirements-which include the Form CRS Filing Requirement,
and the Form CRS Delivery Requirement-for SEC-registered broker-dealers offering
services to a retail investor. Broker-dealers were required to comply with these
requirements by June 30, 2020. 2
Form CRS provides customers with information about the types of services the firm
offers; the fees, costs, conflicts of interest, and required standard of conduct associated
with those services; whether the finn and its investment professionals have reportable
legal or disciplinary history; and how to get more information about the firm.
Form CRS also includes required "conversation starters" to help begin a discussion with
a broker-dealer about the relationship, including their services, fees, costs, conflicts, and
disciplinary information.
Section 17(a)(l) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 requires registered brokerdealers to make and keep for prescribed periods such records as the Commission deems
"necessary or appropriate in the public interest, for the protection of investors or
otherwise in furtherance of the purposes of' the Exchange Act. Exchange Act Rule 17a14-titled "Form CRS, for preparation, filing and delivery of Form CRS"- requires
broker-dealers offering services to a retail investor to electronically file on the Central
Registration Depository (Web CRD) an initial Form CRS satisfying the Form CRS Filing
Requirement no later than June 30, 2020.
Rule l 7a-14 also requires broker-dealers to deliver their current Form CRS to each retail
investor. Specifically, under Rule 17a-14(f)(3), within 30 days after the date by which it
is first required to file the initial Form CRS with the Commission, the broker-dealer must
deliver to each existing customer who is a retail investor the current Fom1 CRS. In
addition, Rule 17a- l 4(c)(2) requires broker-dealers to deliver:
(1) to each retail investor its current Form CRS before or at the earliest of:
•

a recommendation of an account type, a securities transaction, or an investment
strategy involving securities;

•

placing an order for the retail investor; or

•

the opening of a brokerage account for the retail investor.

2 See Fo1m CRS Relationship Summary; Amendments to Form ADV, Release Nos. 34-86032 & lA-5247 (June 5,
2019) (effective September I 0, 2019).

2

(2) to each retail investor who is an existing customer the broker-dealer' s current Form
CRS before or at the time the firm:
•

opens a new account that is different from the retail investor existing account(s);

•

recommends that the retail investor roll over assets from a retirement account into
a new or existing account or investment; or

•

recommends or provides a new brokerage service or investment that does not
necessarily involve the opening of a new account and would not be held in an
existing account.

Rule l 7a-l 4 also requires broker-dealers to post their current Fonn CRS prominently on
their website, if they have one, in a location and format that is easily accessible to retail
investors. The deadline for broker-dealers to begin complying with the Form CRS
Delivery Requirement for prospective and new retail investors was June 30, 2020.
FINRA Rule 4511 requires each FINRA member to, among other things, make and
preserve books and records as required under the Exchange Act and applicable Exchange
Act mies, including Exchange Act § l 7(a)(l) and Rule 17a-14.
A violation of Exchange Act§ l 7(a)(l), Rule l 7a-14, and FINRA Rule 4511 also is a
violation of FINRA Rule 2010, which requires member firms to observe high standards
of commercial honor and just and equitable principles of trade in the conduct of their
business.
By virtue of having retail investors to whom it offered services, Aaron Capital was
required to file and deliver its Form CRS by June 30, 2020. Despite receiving three
notices of noncompliance from FINRA, Aaron Capital did not file its Form CRS through
Web CRD until October 13, 2021 . Further, the firm failed to post the Form CRS on its
website or to deliver the Form CRS to its existing customers until February 2022.
Therefore, Aaron Capital willfully violated Exchange Act Section 17(a)(l), Exchange
Act Rule 17a-14, and FINRA Rules 4511 and 2010.

Aaron Capital Failed to Have a Reasonably Designed System, Including WSPs, to
Comply with Its Form CRS Obligations
FINRA Rule 31 l0(a) requires that a member firm "establish and maintain a system to
supervise the activities of each associated person that is reasonably designed to achieve
compliance with applicable securities laws and regulations, and with applicable FINRA
Rules." A violation ofFINRA Rule 3110 also violates FINRA Rule 2010.
From June 30, 2020, to the present, Aaron Capital failed to establish and maintain a
reasonable supervisory system, including WSPs, designed to achieve compliance with
3

Form CRS filing requirements. From June 30, 2020, to November 5, 2021 , the firm failed
to make any reference to Form CRS in its WSPs. After November 5, 2021, the firm's
discussion of Form CRS in its WSPs included no procedures regarding the preparation,
filing, and distribution of the Form CRS. For example, the WSPs failed to: identify the
designated person responsible for maintaining and filing Form CRS, address the required
relationship summary delivery process, or address the process and requirements to update
Form CRS, including how the firm re-delivers material changes to its retail investors.
Therefore, Aaron Capital violated FINA Rules 31 l0(a) and 2010.
B.

Respondent also consents to the imposition of the following sanctions:
•

a censure

•

a $20,000 fine

•

within 60 days of Notice of Acceptance of this A WC, Respondent shall certify to
FINRA in a submission signed by an officer and registered principal of the firm that,
as of the date of certification, Aaron Capital (1) brought all aspects of its current
Form CRS into compliance; and (2) implemented policies, systems, procedures
(including WSPs), and training reasonably designed to achieve compliance with the
requirements of Form CRS. The certification shall be sent to Jennifer C. Wang,
Counsel, at 12801 N. Central Expressway, Suite 1050, Dallas, Texas 75243, or
electronically to jennifer.wang@finra.org. Upon written request showing good cause,
FfNRA staff may extend the procedural date set forth above.

Respondent agrees to pay the monetary sanction upon notice that this A WC has been
accepted and that such payment is due and payable. Respondent has submitted an
Election of Payment fom1 showing the method by which it proposes to pay the fine
imposed.
Respondent specifically and voluntarily waives any right to claim an inability to pay, now
or at any time after the execution of this A WC, the monetary sanction imposed in this
matter.
Respondent understands that this settlement includes a finding that it willfully violated
Section l 7(a)(l) and Rule l 7a-14 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and that under
Article III, Section 4 of FfNRA's By-Laws, this makes Respondent subject to a statutory
disqualification with respect to membership.
The sanctions imposed in this A WC shall be effective on a date set by FfNRA.

4

II.

WAIVER OF PROCEDURAL RIGHTS
Respondent specifically and voluntarily waives the following rights granted under FINRA's
Code of Procedure:
A.

To have a complaint issued specifying the allegations against it;

B.

To be notified of the complaint and have the opportunity to answer the allegations
in writing;

C.

To defend against the allegations in a disciplinary hearing before a hearing panel,
to have a written record of the hearing made, and to have a written decision
issued; and

D.

To appeal any such decision to the National Adjudicatory Council (NAC) and
then to the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission and a U.S. Court of
Appeals.

Further, Respondent specifically and voluntarily waives any right to claim bias or prejudgment
of the Chief Legal Officer, the NAC, or any member of the NAC, in connection with such
person's or body's participation in discussions regarding the terms and conditions of this AWC,
or other consideration of this A WC, including its acceptance or rejection.
Respondent further specifically and voluntarily waives any right to claim that a person violated
the ex parte prohibitions of FINRA Rule 9143 or the separation of functions prohibitions of
FINRA Rule 9144, in connection with such person' s or body's participation in discussions
regarding the terms and conditions of this AWC, or other consideration of this AWC, including
its acceptance or rejection.

III.
OTHER MATTERS
Respondent understands that:
A.

Submission of this AWC is voluntary and will not resolve this matter unless and
until it has been reviewed and accepted by the NAC, a Review Subcommittee of
the NAC, or the Office of Disciplinary Affairs (ODA), pursuant to FINRA Rule
9216;

B.

If this A WC is not accepted, its submission will not be used as evidence to prove

any of the allegations against Respondent; and

5

C.

D.

If accepted:

1.

this AWC will become part of Respondent's permanent disciplinary
record and may be considered in any future action brought by FINRA or
any other regulator against Respondent;

2.

this AWC will be made available through FINRA's public disclosure
program in accordance with FINRA Rule 8313;

3.

FINRA may make a public announcement concerning this agreement and
its subject matter in accordance with FINRA Rule 8313; and

4.

Respondent may not take any action or make or permit to be made any
public statement, including in regulatory filings or otherwise, denying,
directly or indirectly, any finding in this A WC or create the impression
that the AWC is without factual basis. Respondent may not take any
position in any proceeding brought by or on behalf of FINRA, or to which
FINRA is a party, that is inconsistent with any part of this AWC. Nothing
in this provision affects Respondent's right to take legal or factual
positions in litigation or other legal proceedings in which FINRA is not a
party. Nothing in this provision affects Respondent's testimonial
obligations in any litigation or other legal proceedings.

Respondent may attach a corrective action statement to this AWC that is a
statement of demonstrable corrective steps taken to prevent future misconduct.
Respondent understands that it may not deny the charges or make any statement
that is inconsistent with the AWC in this statement. This statement does not
constitute factual or legal findings by FINRA, nor does it reflect the views of
FINRA.

The undersigned, on behalf of Respondent, certifies that a person duly authorized to act on
Respondent's behalf has read and understands all of the provisions of this AWC and has been
given a full opportunity to ask questions about it; that Respondent has agreed to the AWC's
provisions voluntarily; and that no offer, threat, inducement, or promise of any kind, other than
6

the te1ms set forth in this AWC and the prospect of avoiding the issuance of a compla
int, has
been made to induce Respon dent to submit this A WC.
- /,-,,

) 2-3.--/

Date

(
__...:.........i..-= ..~ ~ ' ¥ -~
Aaron Capital Incorporated
Respondent

_

..,.___----lc,.,<_

_

\;> I.\ ,.; 1 y2 ~

Print

ame:

Title:

c_ ~ ::(" M

--=----

G :x,')l 5;.

V'.\:/\--{

Accept ed by FINRA:
Signed on behalf of the
Directo r of ODA, by delegated authority

May 25, 2022
Date

Jennifer C. Wang
Counse l
FINRA
Departm ent of Enforce ment
12801 N. Central Expwy , Suite 1050
Dallas, Texas 75243

7

-

