FINANCIAL INDUSTRY REGULATORY AUTHORITY
LETTER OF ACCEPTANCE, WAIVER, AND CONSENT
NO. 2021069376801
TO:

Department of Enforcement
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA)

RE:

American Wealth Management, Inc. (Respondent)
Member Firm
CRD No. 25536

Pursuant to FINRA Rule 9216, Respondent American Wealth Management, Inc. submits this
Letter of Acceptance, Waiver, and Consent (AWC) for the purpose of proposing a settlement of
the alleged rule violations described below. This AWC is submitted on the condition that, if
accepted, FINRA will not bring any future actions against Respondent alleging violations based
on the same factual findings described in this AWC.
I.
ACCEPTANCE AND CONSENT
A.

Respondent accepts and consents to the following findings by FINRA without admitting
or denying them:
BACKGROUND
American Wealth Management became a FINRA member firm in 1990. The firm, which
is headquartered in Atlanta, Georgia, has six branch offices and 19 registered
representatives. American Wealth Management conducts a general securities business
and provides investment advisory services to retail investors. 1
OVERVIEW
Since July 23, 2020, American Wealth Management has omitted required information
from the firm’s customer relationship summary (Form CRS). Most significantly, from
July 23, 2020, to March 31, 2022, the firm failed to disclose on its Form CRS that it and
six of its financial professionals had legal or disciplinary history. By filing and delivering
to customers a Form CRS that omitted required information, American Wealth
Management willfully violated Section 17(a)(1) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934,
Exchange Act Rule 17a-14, and FINRA Rule 2010.

For more information about the firm, including prior regulatory events, visit BrokerCheck® at
www finra.org/brokercheck.
1

FACTS AND VIOLATIVE CONDUCT
This matter originated from the 2021 Firm Examination of American Wealth
Management.
On June 5, 2019, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) adopted Form CRS
and rules creating new requirements—which include requirements to prepare, file, and
deliver the Form CRS—for SEC-registered broker-dealers offering services to a retail
investor. The compliance date for Form CRS was June 30, 2020.
Form CRS provides customers with information about the types of services the firm
offers; the fees, costs, conflicts of interest, and required standard of conduct associated
with those services; whether the firm and its investment professionals have reportable
legal or disciplinary history; and how to get more information about the firm.
Form CRS also includes required “conversation starters” to help begin a discussion with
a broker-dealer about the relationship, including their services, fees, costs, conflicts, and
disciplinary information.
Section 17(a)(1) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 requires registered brokerdealers to make and keep for prescribed periods such records, furnish such copies thereof,
and make and disseminate such reports as the Commission deems “necessary or
appropriate in the public interest, for the protection of investors or otherwise in
furtherance of the purposes of” the Exchange Act. Exchange Act Rule 17a-14—titled
“Form CRS, for preparation, filing and delivery of Form CRS”—requires broker-dealers
offering services to a retail investor to prepare a Form CRS in accordance with the
instructions in Form CRS, and to comply with requirements related to filing, amending,
delivering, and posting the Form CRS to the firm’s public website.
A violation of Exchange Act § 17(a)(1) and Exchange Act Rule 17a-14 also is a violation
of FINRA Rule 2010, which requires member firms to observe high standards of
commercial honor and just and equitable principles of trade in the conduct of their
business.
Form CRS contains the heading, “Do you or your financial professionals have legal or
disciplinary history?” The instructions to Form CRS state that a firm must respond “Yes”
if it or any of its financial professionals discloses, or is required to disclose, legal or
disciplinary history on specified regulatory disclosure forms, such as Forms BD, U4, U5,

2

and U6. 2 Legal or disciplinary history that is required to be disclosed on those forms
includes criminal history, regulatory actions, civil judicial actions, and specified financial
events (e.g., bankruptcies, judgments, and liens).
American Wealth Management failed to respond “Yes” to the question concerning legal
or disciplinary history on the Form CRS that it filed on July 23, 2020, even though the
firm and six of its registered representatives in fact had prior legal or disciplinary history.
Without addressing whether it had disciplinary history, the firm stated: “Visit
www.investor.com/CRS to research AWM and its financial advisors.” 3 Before filing its
Form CRS, American Wealth Management had already disclosed five disciplinary
actions on its Form BD. These disciplinary actions, which occurred between 1995 and
2017, included violations such as allowing a registered representative whose registration
had lapsed to transact a securities business; operating while under net capital; and
engaging in a securities business in a state in which the firm was not registered. In
addition, Form U4, U5, or U6 filings for six of the firm’s registered representatives,
including the firm’s Chief Executive Officer, disclosed prior legal or disciplinary history.
All of those filings, and the disclosures contained in the filings, were reflected in
FINRA’s Central Registration Depository (CRD) and in BrokerCheck®, and were made
by or were available to the firm. Despite having disclosed five disciplinary actions on its
Form BD—and despite its knowledge of six of its registered representatives’ legal or
disciplinary history—American Wealth Management failed to respond “Yes” to the Form
CRS question concerning legal or disciplinary history. 4
American Wealth Management likewise omitted from its Form CRS other required
information. For example, the Instructions to Form CRS require the firm to include
specific headings and disclosures about potential conflicts of interest, including the
following language:

These forms are submitted to the Central Registration Depository by member firms or regulators. Broker-dealers
file Form BD (Uniform Application for Broker-Dealer Regulation) to become registered with the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission, FINRA, other self-regulatory organizations, and jurisdictions (e.g., U.S. states and
territories); Form U4 (Uniform Application for Securities Industry Registration or Transfer) is used to elicit
employment history, disciplinary, and other information about individuals, to register them with FINRA, other selfregulatory organizations, or jurisdictions; Form U5 (Uniform Termination Notice for Securities Industry
Registration) is used to terminate individuals’ registrations with FINRA, other self-regulatory organizations, or
jurisdictions, and to elicit details regarding the reasons for termination; and Form U6 is used by regulators to report
disclosure events and disciplinary actions against individuals and organizations, and to report final FINRA
arbitration awards against broker-dealers and associated persons.
2

This website address is incorrect. Per the Instructions to Form CRS, firms are required to direct the retail investor
to visit www.investor.gov/CRS (not www.investor.com/CRS) for a search tool. Moreover, American Wealth
Management failed to include in the Form CRS section concerning legal or disciplinary history the required
conversation starter for that section: “As a financial professional, do you have any disciplinary history? For what
type of conduct?” Instead of including this conversation starter under the Form CRS section for legal or disciplinary
history, the firm moved all required conversation starters to the end of its Form CRS. The Instructions to Form CRS,
however, require that conversation starters be “noticeable and prominent in relation to other discussion text.”
3

Following FINRA’s investigation, American Wealth Management updated its Form CRS, effective March 31,
2022, to respond “Yes” to the question concerning legal or disciplinary history.

4

3

When we provide you with a recommendation as your broker-dealer or act
as your investment adviser, we have to act in your best interest and not put
our interest ahead of yours. At the same time, the way we make money
creates some conflicts with your interests. You should understand and ask
us about these conflicts because they can affect the recommendations and
investment advice we provide you. Here are some examples to help you
understand what this means.
The firm’s Form CRS omitted this required language. 5 The firm also failed to include the
required conversation starter, “How might your conflicts of interest affect me, and how
will you address them?” 6 And the firm has failed, in all of the versions of Form CRS it
has filed, 7 to disclose its potential conflicts of interest, which the Instructions to Form
CRS require it to do. The instructions require the firm to summarize how its financial
professionals are compensated, including both their cash and non-cash compensation, and
the conflicts of interest created by those payments. The firm, however, has failed to
explain how its representatives are compensated; it instead has only described certain
types of compensation that its representatives do not receive.
Therefore, American Wealth Management willfully violated Exchange Act § 17(a)(1),
Exchange Act Rule 17a-14, and FINRA Rule 2010.
B.

Respondent also consents to the imposition of the following sanctions:


a censure;



a $35,000 fine; and



an undertaking that, within 30 days of the date of the notice of acceptance of this
AWC, a member of Respondent’s senior management who is a registered
principal of the firm shall certify in writing that, as of the date of the certification,
the firm has reviewed and remediated the deficiencies in its Form CRS, and has
filed, delivered, and posted to its website a Form CRS that complies with
Exchange Act § 17(a)(1), Exchange Act Rule 17a-14, and FINRA Rule 2010. The
certification shall include a narrative description and supporting exhibits
sufficient to demonstrate Respondent’s remediation and implementation. FINRA
staff may request further evidence of Respondent’s remediation and
implementation, and Respondent agrees to provide such evidence. Respondent
shall submit the certification to Rebecca Segrest, Senior Counsel, FINRA,
Department of Enforcement, 303 Perimeter Center North, Suite 550, Atlanta, GA
30346, with a copy to Rebecca.Segrest@finra.org and
EnforcementNotice@finra.org. Upon written request showing good cause,
FINRA staff may extend this deadline.

5

The firm updated the Form CRS that it filed on March 31, 2023, to include this language.

6

The firm updated the Form CRS that it filed on March 31, 2022, to include this conversation starter.

The firm filed its initial Form CRS on July 23, 2020, and updated Forms CRS on August 14, 2020, October 15,
2020, March 31, 2022, March 31, 2023, and April 3, 2023.

7

4

Respondent agrees to pay the monetary sanction upon notice that this AWC has been
accepted and that such payment is due and payable. Respondent has submitted an
Election of Payment form showing the method by which it proposes to pay the fine
imposed.
Respondent specifically and voluntarily waives any right to claim an inability to pay, now
or at any time after the execution of this AWC, the monetary sanction imposed in this
matter.
Respondent understands that this settlement includes a finding that it willfully violated
Exchange Act § 17(a)(1) and Exchange Act Rule 17a-14, and that under Article III,
Section 4 of FINRA’s By-Laws, this makes Respondent subject to a statutory
disqualification with respect to membership.
The sanctions imposed in this AWC shall be effective on a date set by FINRA.
II.
WAIVER OF PROCEDURAL RIGHTS
Respondent specifically and voluntarily waives the following rights granted under FINRA’s
Code of Procedure:
A.

To have a complaint issued specifying the allegations against it;

B.

To be notified of the complaint and have the opportunity to answer the allegations
in writing;

C.

To defend against the allegations in a disciplinary hearing before a hearing panel,
to have a written record of the hearing made, and to have a written decision
issued; and

D.

To appeal any such decision to the National Adjudicatory Council (NAC) and
then to the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission and a U.S. Court of
Appeals.

Further, Respondent specifically and voluntarily waives any right to claim bias or prejudgment
of the Chief Legal Officer, the NAC, or any member of the NAC, in connection with such
person’s or body’s participation in discussions regarding the terms and conditions of this AWC,
or other consideration of this AWC, including its acceptance or rejection.
Respondent further specifically and voluntarily waives any right to claim that a person violated
the ex parte prohibitions of FINRA Rule 9143 or the separation of functions prohibitions of
FINRA Rule 9144, in connection with such person’s or body’s participation in discussions
regarding the terms and conditions of this AWC, or other consideration of this AWC, including
its acceptance or rejection.
5

III.
OTHER MATTERS
Respondent understands that:
A.

Submission of this AWC is voluntary and will not resolve this matter unless and
until it has been reviewed and accepted by the NAC, a Review Subcommittee of
the NAC, or the Office of Disciplinary Affairs (ODA), pursuant to FINRA Rule
9216;

B.

If this AWC is not accepted, its submission will not be used as evidence to prove
any of the allegations against Respondent; and

C.

If accepted:

D.

1.

this AWC will become part of Respondent’s permanent disciplinary
record and may be considered in any future action brought by FINRA or
any other regulator against Respondent;

2.

this AWC will be made available through FINRA’s public disclosure
program in accordance with FINRA Rule 8313;

3.

FINRA may make a public announcement concerning this agreement and
its subject matter in accordance with FINRA Rule 8313; and

4.

Respondent may not take any action or make or permit to be made any
public statement, including in regulatory filings or otherwise, denying,
directly or indirectly, any finding in this AWC or create the impression
that the AWC is without factual basis. Respondent may not take any
position in any proceeding brought by or on behalf of FINRA, or to which
FINRA is a party, that is inconsistent with any part of this AWC. Nothing
in this provision affects Respondent’s right to take legal or factual
positions in litigation or other legal proceedings in which FINRA is not a
party. Nothing in this provision affects Respondent’s testimonial
obligations in any litigation or other legal proceedings.

Respondent may attach a corrective action statement to this AWC that is a
statement of demonstrable corrective steps taken to prevent future misconduct.
Respondent understands that it may not deny the charges or make any statement
that is inconsistent with the AWC in this statement. This statement does not
constitute factual or legal findings by FINRA, nor does it reflect the views of
FINRA.

The undersigned, on behalf of Respondent, certifies that a person duly authorized to act on
Respondent’s behalf has read and understands all of the provisions of this AWC and has been
given a full opportunity to ask questions about it; that Respondent has agreed to the AWC’s
6

provisions voluntarily; and that no offer, threat, inducement, or promise of any kind, other than
the terms set forth in this AWC and the prospect of avoiding the issuance of a complaint, has
been made to induce Respondent to submit this AWC.
April 21, 2023

Date

____________________________________
American Wealth Management, Inc.
Respondent
Print Name:
Title:

Jerry Borzello

president

Accepted by FINRA:
Signed on behalf of the
Director of ODA, by delegated authority
May 19, 2023

Date

Rebecca Segrest
Senior Counsel
FINRA
Department of Enforcement
303 Perimeter Center North, Suite 550
Atlanta, GA 30346

7

