FINANCIAL INDUSTRY REGULATORY AUTHORITY
LETTER OF ACCEPTANCE, WAIVER, AND CONSENT
NO. 2021072000902
TO:

Department of Enforcement
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA)

RE:

Union Capital Company (Respondent)
Member Firm
CRD No. 110301

Pursuant to FINRA Rule 9216, Respondent Union Capital Company submits this Letter of
Acceptance, Waiver, and Consent (AWC) for the purpose of proposing a settlement of the
alleged rule violations described below. This AWC is submitted on the condition that, if
accepted, FINRA will not bring any future actions against Respondent alleging violations based
on the same factual findings described in this AWC.
I.
ACCEPTANCE AND CONSENT
A.

Respondent accepts and consents to the following findings by FINRA without admitting
or denying them:
BACKGROUND
Union Capital became a member of FINRA in 2001. The firm is headquartered in
Tucson, Arizona. The firm has three branch offices and approximately 20 registered
representatives. 1
OVERVIEW
From January 2019 through at least December 2021, Union Capital failed to establish,
maintain, and enforce a supervisory system, including written supervisory procedures
(WSPs), reasonably designed to achieve compliance with the suitability requirements of
FINRA Rule 2111 and the Care Obligation of Rule 15l-1 of the Securities Exchange Act
of 1934 (Reg BI) 2 with respect to its registered representatives’ recommendations of
leveraged and inverse exchange-traded funds and leveraged and inverse mutual funds
(Non-Traditional Funds), in violation of FINRA Rules 3110 and 2010. As of June 30,
2020, and continuing through at least December 2021, Union Capital also failed to
comply with Reg BI’s Compliance Obligation by not establishing, maintaining, and

1
2

For more information about the firm, visit BrokerCheck® at www finra.org/brokercheck.

The compliance date for Reg BI was June 30, 2020. Also, effective June 30, 2020, FINRA amended Rule 2111 to
state that Rule 2111 will not apply to recommendations subject to Reg BI.

enforcing WSPs reasonably designed to achieve compliance with Reg BI with respect to
recommendations of Non-Traditional Funds, in violation of Exchange Act Rule 15l1(a)(1) and FINRA Rule 2010.
FACTS AND VIOLATIVE CONDUCT
This matter originated from a customer tip to FINRA.
A.

Non-Traditional Funds

Non-Traditional Funds are complex financial instruments designed to return a multiple of
the performance of an underlying index or benchmark (leveraged funds), the opposite of
the daily performance of the index or benchmark (inverse funds), or both (leveragedinverse funds), usually over the course of a single day. As such, Non-Traditional Funds
typically rebalance their portfolios on a daily basis (also known as the daily reset), which
means they are designed to achieve their stated objective on a daily basis. The prospectus
for each product typically describes the product’s intended holding period.
In June 2009, FINRA issued Regulatory Notice 09-31 to caution member firms that, due
to the effect of compounding, the performance of leveraged and inverse products, like
Non-Traditional Funds, for periods longer than the intended holding period “can differ
significantly from the performance (or inverse of the performance) of their underlying
index or benchmark during the same period of time” and therefore “typically are not
suitable for retail investors who plan to hold them for more than one trading session.”
The Notice specified that this applies equally to leveraged and inverse exchange-traded
funds and leveraged and inverse mutual funds, which raise many of the same issues.
Non-Traditional Fund prospectuses typically provide similar warnings concerning the
suitable holding period for retail investors.
Regulatory Notice 09-31 also reminded firms of their obligation to establish supervisory
systems reasonably designed to achieve compliance with applicable FINRA and SEC
rules when recommending Non-Traditional Funds. The Notice further advised that firms
and their associated persons must understand the terms and features of Non-Traditional
Funds, including the effect the customer’s intended holding period will have on the
products’ performance, before recommending the purchase of the products. The notice
instructed firms that they “must train registered persons about the terms, features and
risks of all [funds] that they sell …. In the case of leveraged and inverse [funds], that
training should emphasize the need to understand and consider the risks associated with
such products, including the investor’s time horizons, and the impact of time and
volatility on the fund’s performance.”
In January 2012, FINRA issued Regulatory Notice 12-03 to remind firms of their
heightened supervisory obligations regarding complex products, such as Non-Traditional
Funds. This obligation requires firms to “periodically reassess” these products “to
determine whether their performance and risk profile remain consistent with the manner
in which the firm is selling them” and to consider developing procedures to evaluate how
the products performed after the firm approved them.
2

In adopting Reg BI, the SEC cited Regulatory Notices 09-31 and 12-03 in its discussion
of inverse and leveraged exchange-traded products, cautioning that, “broker-dealers
recommending such products should understand that inverse and leveraged exchangetraded products that are reset daily may not be suitable for, and as a consequence also not
in the best interest of, retail customers who plan to hold them for longer than one trading
session, particularly in volatile markets.” Emphasizing the importance of understanding
the terms, features, and risks of such products in order to form a reasonable basis to
recommend them to retail customers, the SEC further stated that “these products may not
be in the best interest of a retail customer absent an identified, short-term, customerspecific trading objective.” 3
B.

Union Capital failed to establish, maintain, and enforce a supervisory system,
including WSPs, reasonably designed to achieve compliance with SEC and
FINRA rules regarding Non-Traditional Fund recommendations.

As of June 30, 2020, broker-dealers and their associated persons are required to comply
with Reg BI. Rule 15l-1(a)(1) of Reg BI requires a broker, dealer, or a natural person
associated with a broker or dealer, when making a recommendation of any securities
transaction or investment strategy involving securities (including account
recommendations) to a retail customer, to act in the best interest of that retail customer at
the time the recommendation is made, without placing the financial or other interest of
the broker, dealer, or associated person ahead of the interest of the retail customer.
Reg BI’s Care Obligation, set forth at Exchange Act Rule 15l-1(a)(2)(ii), requires brokerdealers and their associated persons to exercise reasonable diligence, care, and skill to,
among other things, understand the potential risks, rewards, and costs associated with a
recommendation.
Reg BI’s Compliance Obligation, set forth at Exchange Act Rule 15l-1(a)(2)(iv), requires
broker-dealers to establish, maintain, and enforce written policies and procedures
reasonably designed to achieve compliance with Reg BI. The Adopting Release provides
that broker-dealers should consider the nature of that firm’s operations and how to design
such policies and procedures to prevent violations from occurring, to detect violations
that have occurred, and to correct promptly any violations that have occurred. 4
Prior to June 30, 2020, FINRA Rule 2111 required members and associated persons to
have a reasonable basis to believe that a recommended transaction or investment strategy
involving a security or securities to any customer is suitable for the customer. FINRA
Rule 2111 is still in effect, but as of June 30, 2020, it no longer applies to
recommendations that are subject to Reg BI.

3

Regulation Best Interest: The Broker-Dealer Standard of Conduct, Exchange Act Release No. 86031, 84 FR 33318
at 33376 (July 12, 2019) (Reg BI Adopting Release).
4

Reg BI Adopting Release at 33397.

3

FINRA Rule 3110 requires member firms to establish, maintain, and enforce a
supervisory system, including written procedures, to supervise the activities of each
associated person that is reasonably designed to achieve compliance with applicable
securities laws, regulations, and FINRA rules.
A violation of Reg BI or FINRA Rule 3110 also is a violation of FINRA Rule 2010,
which requires members to “observe high standards of commercial honor and just and
equitable principles of trade” in the conduct of their business.
From January 2019 through at least December 2021, Union Capital failed to establish,
maintain, and enforce written policies and procedures reasonably designed to achieve
compliance with the suitability requirements of FINRA Rule 2111 and the Care
Obligation of Reg BI with respect to recommendations of Non-Traditional Funds and to
supervise such recommendations. For example, during this period, Union Capital’s WSPs
did not include any specific policies or procedures for the supervision of Non-Traditional
Funds. The firm’s WSPs did not state whether representatives were permitted to
recommend Non-Traditional Funds or under what circumstances the products should or
should not be recommended. The WSPs also provided no guidance to supervisors
regarding how to identify and address potentially unsuitable Non-Traditional Fund
recommendations. Union Capital did not provide any training to its representatives or
supervisors regarding the terms, features, and risks of Non-Traditional Funds. Union
Capital did not establish a supervisory system reasonably designed to ensure compliance
with the requirement that its representatives have a reasonable basis to recommend NonTraditional Funds, including that they consider the intended holding periods identified in
the products’ prospectuses.
As a result of these supervisory failures, Union Capital failed to detect and address
several occasions during the relevant period in which the firm’s representatives
recommended that customers buy Non-Traditional Funds without a reasonable basis to
recommend them. Some of the affected customers were seniors who had a moderate risk
tolerance. For example, a 98-year-old customer with a moderate risk tolerance purchased
a daily-reset Non-Traditional Fund and held it for 19 days, resulting in a realized loss of
approximately $700. The firms’ representatives recommended 14 daily-reset NonTraditional Fund positions that were held in four customers’ accounts for periods ranging
from 14 to 407 days. Those customers suffered $28,237.85 in total net realized losses.
As a result of its misconduct, from January 2019 through at least December 2021, Union
Capital violated FINRA Rules 3110 and 2010, and from June 30, 2020, through at least
December 2021, Union Capital also violated Exchange Act Rule 15l-1(a)(1).
B.

Respondent also consents to the imposition of the following sanctions:
a censure;
restitution of $28,237.85 as described below; and

4

an undertaking that, within 120 days of the date of the notice of acceptance of this
AWC, a member of Respondent’s senior management who is a registered
principal of the firm shall certify in writing that, as of the date of the certification,
the firm has remediated the issues identified in the AWC and implemented a
supervisory system, including written supervisory procedures, reasonably
designed to achieve compliance with Reg BI and FINRA Rule 3110 regarding the
issues identified in this AWC. The certification shall include a narrative
description and supporting exhibits sufficient to demonstrate Respondent’s
remediation and implementation. FINRA staff may request further evidence of
Respondent’s remediation and implementation, and Respondent agrees to provide
such evidence. Respondent shall submit the certification to Shane B. Kelly,
Principal Counsel, 4600 S. Syracuse Street, Suite 1400, Denver, Colorado, 80237,
or electronically to shane.kelly@finra.org, with a copy to
EnforcementNotice@finra.org. Upon written request showing good cause,
FINRA staff may extend this deadline.
Respondent has submitted a statement of financial condition and demonstrated a limited
ability to pay. In light of Respondent’s financial status, the sanctions do not include a
monetary fine.
Restitution is ordered to be paid to the customers listed on Attachment A to this AWC
(Eligible Customers) in the total amount of $28,237.85.
A registered principal on behalf of Respondent shall submit satisfactory proof of payment
of restitution (separately specifying the date and amount of each paid to each Eligible
Customer) or of reasonable and documented efforts undertaken to effect restitution. Such
proof shall be submitted by email to EnforcementNotice@FINRA.org from a workrelated account of the registered principal of Respondent. The email must identify
Respondent and the case number and include a copy of the check, money order, or other
method of payment. This proof shall be provided by email to
EnforcementNotice@FINRA.org no later than 120 days after the date of the notice of
acceptance of the AWC.
The restitution amount to be paid to each Eligible Customer shall be treated by the
Respondent as the Eligible Customer’s property for purposes of state escheatment,
unclaimed property, abandoned property, and similar laws. If after reasonable and
documented efforts undertaken to effect restitution Respondent is unable to pay all
Eligible Customers within 120 days after the date of the notice of acceptance of the
AWC, Respondent shall submit to FINRA in the manner described above a list of the
unpaid Eligible Customers and a description of Respondent’s plan, not unacceptable to
FINRA, to comply with the applicable escheatment, unclaimed property, abandoned
property, or similar laws for each such Eligible Customer.
Respondent specifically and voluntarily waives any right to claim an inability to pay, now
or at any time after the execution of this AWC, the monetary sanction imposed in this
matter.
5

The imposition of a restitution order or any other monetary sanction in this AWC, and the
timing of such ordered payments, does not preclude customers from pursuing their own
actions to obtain restitution or other remedies.
Restitution payments to customers shall be preceded or accompanied by a letter, not
unacceptable to FINRA, describing the reason for the payment and the fact that the
payment is being made pursuant to a settlement with FINRA and as a term of this AWC.
The sanctions imposed in this AWC shall be effective on a date set by FINRA.
II.
WAIVER OF PROCEDURAL RIGHTS
Respondent specifically and voluntarily waives the following rights granted under FINRA’s
Code of Procedure:
A.

To have a complaint issued specifying the allegations against it;

B.

To be notified of the complaint and have the opportunity to answer the allegations
in writing;

C.

To defend against the allegations in a disciplinary hearing before a hearing panel,
to have a written record of the hearing made, and to have a written decision
issued; and

D.

To appeal any such decision to the National Adjudicatory Council (NAC) and
then to the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission and a U.S. Court of
Appeals.

Further, Respondent specifically and voluntarily waives any right to claim bias or prejudgment
of the Chief Legal Officer, the NAC, or any member of the NAC, in connection with such
person’s or body’s participation in discussions regarding the terms and conditions of this AWC,
or other consideration of this AWC, including its acceptance or rejection.
Respondent further specifically and voluntarily waives any right to claim that a person violated
the ex parte prohibitions of FINRA Rule 9143 or the separation of functions prohibitions of
FINRA Rule 9144, in connection with such person’s or body’s participation in discussions
regarding the terms and conditions of this AWC, or other consideration of this AWC, including
its acceptance or rejection.

6

III.
OTHER MATTERS
Respondent understands that:
A.

Submission of this AWC is voluntary and will not resolve this matter unless and
until it has been reviewed and accepted by the NAC, a Review Subcommittee of
the NAC, or the Office of Disciplinary Affairs (ODA), pursuant to FINRA Rule
9216;

B.

If this AWC is not accepted, its submission will not be used as evidence to prove
any of the allegations against Respondent; and

C.

If accepted:

D.

1.

this AWC will become part of Respondent’s permanent disciplinary
record and may be considered in any future action brought by FINRA or
any other regulator against Respondent;

2.

this AWC will be made available through FINRA’s public disclosure
program in accordance with FINRA Rule 8313;

3.

FINRA may make a public announcement concerning this agreement and
its subject matter in accordance with FINRA Rule 8313; and

4.

Respondent may not take any action or make or permit to be made any
public statement, including in regulatory filings or otherwise, denying,
directly or indirectly, any finding in this AWC or create the impression
that the AWC is without factual basis. Respondent may not take any
position in any proceeding brought by or on behalf of FINRA, or to which
FINRA is a party, that is inconsistent with any part of this AWC. Nothing
in this provision affects Respondent’s right to take legal or factual
positions in litigation or other legal proceedings in which FINRA is not a
party. Nothing in this provision affects Respondent’s testimonial
obligations in any litigation or other legal proceedings.

Respondent may attach a corrective action statement to this AWC that is a
statement of demonstrable corrective steps taken to prevent future misconduct.
Respondent understands that it may not deny the charges or make any statement
that is inconsistent with the AWC in this statement. This statement does not
constitute factual or legal findings by FINRA, nor does it reflect the views of
FINRA.

The undersigned, on behalf of Respondent, certifies that a person duly authorized to act on
Respondent’s behalf has read and understands all of the provisions of this AWC and has been
given a full opportunity to ask questions about it; that Respondent has agreed to the AWC’s
7

provisions voluntarily; and that no offer, threat, inducement, or promise of any kind, other than
the terms set forth in this AWC and the prospect of avoiding the issuance of a complaint, has
been made to induce Respondent to submit this AWC.

Date

Union Capital Company
Respondent
Print Name:
Title:

Reviewed by:

Denis Dice
Counsel for Respondent
Winget, Spadafora and Schwartzberg, LLP
1528 Walnut Street, Suite 1502
Philadelphia, PA 19102
Accepted by FINRA:
Signed on behalf of the
Director of ODA, by delegated authority

Date

Shane B. Kelly
Principal Counsel
FINRA
Department of Enforcement
4600 S. Syracuse St., Suite 1400
Denver, CO 80237

8

