FINANCIAL INDUSTRY REGULATORY AUTHORITY
LETTER OF ACCEPTANCE, WAIVER, AND CONSENT
NO. 2021070498106
TO:

Department of Enforcement
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA)

RE:

Alfred S. Vanderlaan (Respondent)
Fonner General Securities Representative
CRD No. 1172406

Pursuant to FINRA Rule 9216, Respondent Alfred S. Vanderlaan submits this Letter of
Acceptance, Waiver, and Consent (AWC) for the purpose of proposing a settlement of the
alleged rule violations described below. This A WC is submitted on the condition that, if
accepted, FINRA will not bring any future actions against Respondent alleging violations based
on the same factual findings described in this AWC.

I.
ACCEPTANCE AND CONSENT
A.

Respondent accepts and consents to the following findings by FINRA without admitting
or denying them:

BACKGROUND
Vanderlaan first became registered with FINRA as a General Securities Representative
(GS) in 1983, through an association with a FINRA member firm. From May 2019 to
June 2022, Vanderlaan was registered as a GS, Corporate Securities Representative (CS),
and Operations Professional (OS) through WestPark Capital, Inc. (CRD No. 39914). On
June 2, 2022, WestPark filed a Uniform Termination Notice for Securities Industry
Registration (Form U5) on behalf of Vanderlaan stating that his termination was
voluntary.
Although Vanderlaan is no longer registered or associated with any FINRA member firm,
he remains subject to FINRA' s jurisdiction. On November 2, 2023, WestPark filed an
amended Form U5 for Vanderlaan, disclosing a new customer arbitration that was filed
alleging sales practice violations.
In April 2013, Vanderlaan entered into a consent order with the State of South Dakota
Department of Labor and Regulation Division of Securities for failing to obtain proper
approval from his firm before using any type of advertising regarding the offer or sale of
securities. Vanderlaan paid a fine of $1 ,500 in connection with that order. 1

1 For more information about the respondent, including prior regulatory events, visit BrokerCheck® at
www .finra.org/brokercheck.
·

OVERVIEW

Vanderlaan recommended that two retail customers invest in GWG L Bonds, which were
speculative, unrated corporate bonds. Vanderlaan' s recommendations to Customer A in
August 2020 and Customer Bin December 2020 and February 2021 were not in the
customers' best interests based on their investment profiles. Vanderlaan therefore
willfully violated Rule 15/-l(a)(l) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (Reg BI)
and violated FINRA Rule 2010.
FACTS AND VIOLATIVE CONDUCT
1. Legal Framework

As of June 30, 2020, broker-dealers and their associated persons are required to comply
with Regulation BI under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Rule 15/-l(a)(l) of Reg
BI requires a broker, dealer, or a natural person associated with a broker or dealer, when
making a recommendation of any securities transaction or investment strategy involving
securities (including account recommendations) to a retail customer, to act in the best
interest of that retail customer at the time the recommendation is made, without placing
the financial or other interest of the broker, dealer, or associated person ahead of the
interest of the retail customer. Reg Bi' s Care Obligation, set forth at Exchange Act Rule
15/-l(a)(2)(ii), requires broker-dealers and their associated persons to exercise reasonable
diligence, care, and skill to, among other things, have a reasonable basis to believe that
the recommendation is in the best interest of a particular retail customer based on that
retail customer' s investment profile and the potential risks, rewards, and costs associated
with the recommendation. Regulation BI defines a "retail customer investment profile" to
include, but not be limited to, the customer's age, other investments, financial situation
and needs, tax status, investment objectives, investment experience, investment time
horizon, liquidity needs, risk tolerance, and any other information the customer may
disclose to the member or associated person in connection with such recommendation.
A recommendation may not be in the best interest of a customer if it results in a
concentration in a particular security or category of securities that creates a risk ofloss
inconsistent with the customer' s investment profile.
A violation of Reg BI also is a violation of FINRA Rule 2010, which requires associated
persons to "observe high standards of commercial honor and just and equitable principles
of trade" in the conduct of their business.

2

2. GWG Holdings, Inc.
GWG is a publicly traded financial services company. Prior to 2018, GWG purchased life
insurance policies through its subsidiaries on the secondary market. GWG continued to
pay the premiums for each policy that it purchased and collected the policy benefits upon
the insured's death. Following a series of transactions in 2018 and 2019 with Beneficient
Company Group, L.P ., GWG reoriented its business, stopped acquiring life insurance
policies, and focused instead on developing a business model of providing liquidity to
holders of illiquid investments and alternative assets.
GWG had a history of net losses and had not generated sufficient operating and investing
cash flows to fund its operations. To finance its operations, GWG offered L Bonds to
investors with varying maturity periods and interest rates. L Bonds were not directly
secured by GWG's life insurance portfolio and were not rated by any bond rating agency .
GWG sold L Bonds to retail investors in four separate offerings and made those sales
through a network of broker-dealers, including WestPark, which entered into an
agreement with GWG to sell L Bonds in July 2016 and approved the product for sale by
its registered representatives. The offering documents for the third and fourth L Bond
offerings, which commenced in December 2017 and June 2020, respectively, stated the
'bonds could be considered speculative, involved a high degree of risk, were illiquid, and
were only suitable for persons with substantial financial resources and with no need for
liquidity.
In January 2022, after Vanderlaan's customers made investments in the L Bonds, GWG
defaulted on its obligations to L Bond investors and suspended further sales of L Bonds.
In April 2022, GWG filed for bankruptcy.

3. Vanderlaan's Recommendations to the Customers
Customer A
Customer A, a senior investor, had a moderate risk tolerance, an annual income of
$80,000, and a liquid net worth of $912,000. The customer's stated investment objective
was growth and income, and it did not include speculation.
In August 2020, knowing that Customer A had already invested $135,000 in other
alternative investments, Vanderlaan recommended that Customer A invest $50,000 in
GWG L Bonds from the fourth offering. Vanderlaan received $2,000 in commission in
connection with this recommendation. As a result of this investment, Customer A had
$185,000 invested in alternative investments, which exceeded 20% of his liquid net
worth. This recommendation was not in Customer A's best interest based on his
investment profile, including his moderate risk tolerance, in light of the high degree of
risk associated with the GWG L Bonds.

3

Customer B
Customer B had a moderate risk tolerance, an annual income of $700,000, and a liquid
net worth of $1 million. The customer' s stated investment objective was growth and
income, and it did not include speculation.
In December 2020, knowing that Customer B had already invested $100,000 in GWG L
Bonds and $15,000 in other alternative investments, Vanderlaan recommended that
Customer B invest an additional $100,000 in GWG L Bonds from the fourth offering.
Vanderlaan received $3,920 in commission in connection with this recommendation. In
February 2021 , with the customer already having invested $200,000 in GWG L Bonds
and $15,000 in other alternative investments, Vanderlaan recommended that the customer
invest an additional $15,000 in L Bonds from the fourth offering. Vanderlaan received
$588 in commission in connection with this recommendation. As a result of his GWG
investments in December 2020 and February 2021 , Customer B had over 21 % of his
liquid net worth invested in L Bonds and 23% of his liquid net worth invested in
alternative investments. Vanderlaan' s December 2020 and February 2021
recommendations were not in Customer B ' s best interest based on his investment profile,
including his moderate risk tolerance, in light of the high degree of risk associated with
the L Bonds.
Therefore, Vanderlaan willfully violated Exchange Act Rule 15/-l(a)(l) and violated
FINRA Rule 2010.
B.

Respondent also consents to the imposition of the following sanctions:
•

a three-month suspension from associating with any FINRA member in all
capacities;

•

a $10,000 fine; and

•

partial restitution of $6,508 plus interest as described below. 2

The fine shall be due and payable either immediately upon reassociation with a member
firm or prior to any application or request for relief from any statutory disqualification
resulting from this or any other event or proceeding, whichever is earlier.
Partial restitution is ordered to be paid to the customers listed on Attachment A to this
A WC (Eligible Customers) in the total amount of $6,508, plus interest at the rate set forth
in Section 662 1(a)(2) of the Internal Revenue Code, 26 U.S.C. § 6621(a)(2), from
February 2021 , until the date the restitution plus interest are due and payable.
Partial restitution plus interest ordered pursuant to this disciplinary action are due and
payable immediately upon reassociation with a member firm or upon submission of any
2 The amount of partial restitution is equal to the commission received by Vanderlaan for the L Bond sales to
Customer A in August 2020 and Customer B in December 2020 and February 2021 .

4

application or request for relief from any statutory disqualification resulting from this or
any other event or proceeding, whichever is earlier.
Respondent shall submit satisfactory proof of payment of restitution and interest
(separately specifying the date and amount of each paid to each Eligible Customer) or of
reasonable and documented efforts undertaken to effect restitution. Such proof shall be
submitted by email to EnforcementNotice@FINRA.org. The email must identify
Respondent and the case number and include a copy of the check, money order, or other
method of payment. This proof shall be provided by email to
EnforcementNotice@FINRA.org no later than 120 days after the date the restitution plus
interest are due and payable.
The restitution amount plus interest to be paid to each Eligible Customer shall be treated
by the Respondent as the Eligible Customer's property for purposes of state escheatment,
unclaimed property, abandoned property, and similar laws. If after reasonable and
documented efforts undertaken to effect restitution Respondent is unable to pay all
Eligible Customers within 120 days after the restitution and interest are due and payable,
Respondent shall submit to FINRA in the manner described above a list of the unpaid
Eligible Customers and a description of Respondent's plan, not unacceptable to FINRA,
to comply with the applicable escheatment, unclaimed property, abandoned property, or
similar laws for each such Eligible Customer.
Respondent specifically and voluntarily waives any right to claim an inability to pay, now
or at any time after the execution of this AWC, the monetary sanctions imposed in this
matter.
The imposition of a restitution order or any other monetary sanctions in this A WC, and
the timing of such ordered payments, does not preclude customers from pursuing their
own actions to obtain restitution or other remedies.
Respondent understands that if he is barred or suspended from associating with any
FINRA member, he becomes subject to a statutory disqualification as that term is defined
in Article III, Section 4 ofFINRA's By-Laws, incorporating Section 3(a)(39) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Accordingly, he may not be associated with any
FINRA member in any capacity, including clerical or ministerial functions, during the
period of the bar or suspension. See FINRA Rules 8310 and 8311.
Respondent understands that this settlement includes a finding that he willfully violated
Rule 15/-1 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and that under Article III, Section 4 of
FINRA's By-Laws, this makes him subject to a statutory disqualification with respect to
association with a member.
The sanctions imposed in this A WC shall be effective on a date set by FINRA.

5

II.

WAIVER OF PROCEDURAL RIGHTS

Respondent specifically and voluntarily waives the following rights granted under FINRA' s
Code of Procedure:
A.

To have a complaint issued specifying the allegations against him;

B.

To be notified of the complaint and have the opportunity to answer the allegations
in writing;

C.

To defend against the allegations in a disciplinary hearing before a hearing panel,
to have a written record of the hearing made, and to have a written decision
issued; and

D.

To appeal any such decision to the NAC and then to the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission and a U.S. Court of Appeals.

Further, Respondent specifically and voluntarily waives any right to claim bias or prejudgment
of the Chief Legal Officer, the NAC, or any member of the NAC, in connection with such
person' s or body ' s participation in discussions regarding the terms and conditions of this AWC,
or other consideration of this A WC, including its acceptance or rejection.
Respondent further specifically and voluntarily waives any right to claim that a person violated
the ex parte prohibitions ofFINRA Rule 9143 or the separation of functions prohibitions of
FINRA Rule 9144, in connection with such person's or body's participation in discussions
regarding the terms and conditions of this AWC, or other consideration of this AWC, including
its acceptance or rejection.

m.
OTHER MATTERS

Respondent understands that:
A.

Submission of this A WC is voluntary and will not resolve this matter unless and
until it has been reviewed and accepted by the NAC, a Review Subcommittee of
the NAC, or the Office of Disciplinary Affairs (ODA), pursuant to FINRA Rule
9216;

B.

If this AWC is not accepted, its submission will not be used as evidence to prove
any of the allegations against Respondent; and

C.

If accepted:

6

D.

1.

this AWC will become part of Respondent's permanent disciplinary
record and may be considered in any future action brought by FINRA or
arty other regulator against Respondent;

2.

this AWC will be made available through FINRA's public disclosure
program in accordance with FINRA Rule 8313 ;

3.

FINRA may make a public announcement concerning this agreement and
its subject matter in accordance with FINRA Rule 8313; and

4.

Respondent may not take any action or make or permit to be made any
public statement, including in regulatory filings or otherwise, denying,
directly or indirectly, any finding in this A WC or create the impression
that the AWC is without factual basis. Respondent may not take any
position in any proceeding brought by or on behalf of FINRA, or to which
FINRA is a party, that is inconsistent with any part of this AWC. Nothing
in this provision affects Respondent's right to take legal or factual
positions in litigation or other legal proceedings in which FINRA is not a
party. Nothing in this provision affects Respondent's testimonial
obligations in any litigation or other legal proceedings.

Respondent may attach a corrective action statement to this AWC that is a
statement of demonstrable corrective steps taken to prevent future misconduct.
Respondent understands that he may not deny the charges or make any statement
that is inconsistent with the AWC in this statement. This statement does not
constitute factual or legal findings by FINRA, nor does it reflect the views of
FINRA.

7

Respondent certifies that he has read and understands all of the provisions of this A WC and has
been given a full opportunity to ask questions about it; Respondent understands and
acknowledges that FINRA does not represent or advise him and Respondent cannot rely on
FINRA for legal advice. Respondent has agreed to the AWC ' s provisions voluntarily; and no
offer, threat, inducement, or promise of any kind, other than the terms set forth in this A WC and
the prospect of avoiding the issuance of a complaint, has been made to induce him to submit this
AWC.

Accepted by FINRA:
Signed on behalf of the
Director of ODA, by delegated authority

1/22/2025
Date

Seth Kean
Senior Counsel
FINRA
Department of Enforcement
Brookfield Place, 200 Liberty Street
New York, NY 10281

8

RESTITUTION SCHEDULE

Customer

Investment(s) And Date

A

GWG L Bonds - August
2020
GWG L Bonds - December
2020 and Februarv 2021

B

9

Restitution Amount
(exclusive ofinterest)
$2,000
$4,508

