FINANCIAL INDUSTRY REGULATORY AUTHORITY
LETTER OF ACCEPTANCE, WAIVER, AND CONSENT
NO. 2021069303201
TO:

Department of Enforcement
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA)

RE:

Signet Securities, LLC (Respondent)
Member Firm
CRD No. 154198

Pursuant to FINRA Rule 9216, Respondent Signet Securities, LLC submits this Letter of
Acceptance, Waiver, and Consent (AWC) for the purpose of proposing a settlement of the
alleged rule violations described below. This AWC is submitted on the condition that, if
accepted, FINRA will not bring any future actions against Respondent alleging violations based
on the same factual findings described in this AWC.
I.
ACCEPTANCE AND CONSENT
A.

Respondent accepts and consents to the following findings by FINRA without admitting
or denying them:
BACKGROUND
Signet Securities, LLC has been a FINRA member since January 2011. It is a whollyowned subsidiary of Signet Capital, an investment banking and structured finance
services firm. Since 2020, the firm’s business has primarily been the sale of private
placement securities offerings to customers including retail investors. The firm is
headquartered in Columbus, Ohio and has 18 registered representatives. 1
OVERVIEW
From June 30, 2020, through the present, Signet Securities failed to maintain, and enforce
written policies and procedures, and failed to maintain a supervisory system reasonably
designed to achieve compliance with the firm’s obligation under Regulation Best Interest
(Reg BI) to conduct reasonable due diligence of private placement offerings so as to
ensure it had a reasonable basis to believe the recommendation could be in the best
interest of at least some retail investors. As a result, the firm willfully violated Rule 15l1(a)(1) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and violated FINRA Rules 3110 and
2010.
From January 2020 through the present, the firm failed to maintain and enforce a
supervisory system reasonably designed to achieve compliance with FINRA rules

1

For more information about the firm, visit BrokerCheck® at www.finra.org/brokercheck.

governing outside business activities (OBAs). As a result, Signet Securities violated
FINRA Rules 3110, 3270.01, and 2010.
From June 30, 2020, through April 14, 2022, the firm failed to deliver a customer
relationship summary (Form CRS) to its customers. Between April 14, 2022, and the
present, the firm delivered Form CRS to new customers but failed to deliver Form CRS
to existing customers. By failing to deliver Form CRS to customers, Signet Securities
willfully violated Section 17(a)(1) and Rule 17a-14 of the Exchange Act, and FINRA
Rule 2010.
FACTS AND VIOLATIVE CONDUCT
This matter originated from a FINRA examination of Signet Securities.
Private Placement Due Diligence
As of June 30, 2020, broker-dealers and their associated persons are required to comply
with Regulation BI under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Rule 15l-1(a)(1) of Reg
BI requires a broker, dealer, or a natural person associated with a broker or dealer, when
making a recommendation of any securities transaction or investment strategy involving
securities (including account recommendations) to a retail customer, to act in the best
interest of that retail customer at the time the recommendation is made, without placing
the financial or other interest of the broker, dealer, or associated person ahead of the
interest of the retail customer. Reg BI’s Care Obligation, set forth at Exchange Act Rule
15l-1(a)(2)(ii), requires broker-dealers and their associated persons to exercise reasonable
diligence, care, and skill to, among other things, understand the potential risks, rewards,
and costs associated with a recommendation. Reg BI’s Adopting Release provides that
what constitutes “reasonable diligence” depends on, among other things, the complexity
of, and risks associated with, the recommended security. 2 The Care Obligation requires
broker-dealers and their associated persons to have a reasonable basis to believe that the
recommendation could be in the best interest of at least some retail investors.
Additionally, Reg BI’s Compliance Obligation, set forth at Exchange Act Rule 15l1(a)(2)(iv), requires broker-dealers to establish, maintain, and enforce written policies
and procedures reasonably designed to achieve compliance with Reg BI, including the
Care Obligation. The Adopting Release provides that broker-dealers should consider the
nature of that firm’s operations and how to design such policies and procedures to
prevent violations from occurring, detect violations that have occurred, and to correct
promptly any violations that have occurred. 3
As it relates specifically to private placement securities offerings made under Regulation
D, FINRA issued Regulatory Notice 10-22 (April 20, 2010) to remind firms of their
obligation to conduct a reasonable investigation of the issuer and the securities they
Regulation Best Interest: The Broker-Dealer Standard of Conduct, Exchange Act Release No. 86031, 84 FR 33318
at 33376 (July 12, 2019)
3
Adopting Release at 33397.
2

2

recommend in connection with such offerings. Firms may not rely solely upon the issuer
for information concerning the issuer and while firms are not expected to have the same
knowledge as an issuer or its management, they are required to conduct a reasonable
investigation that independently verifies an issuer’s material representations and claims.
To satisfy its obligations, a firm should, at minimum, conduct a reasonable investigation
of the issuer and its management; the business prospects of the issuer; the assets held by
or to be acquired by the issuer; the claims being made; and the intended use of the
proceeds of the offering. Furthermore, to demonstrate that it has performed a reasonable
investigation, a firm should retain records documenting both the process and results of its
investigation. FINRA issued Regulatory Notice 23-08 (May 9, 2023) to reiterate and
expand upon these principals in light of firms’ obligations under Reg BI.
FINRA Rule 3110 requires member firms to establish, maintain, and enforce a
supervisory system, including written procedures, to supervise the activities of each
associated person that is reasonably designed to achieve compliance with applicable
securities laws, regulations, and FINRA rules.
Violations of Reg BI or FINRA Rule 3110 also are violations of FINRA Rule 2010,
which requires member firms, in the conduct of their business, to observe high standards
of commercial honor and just and equitable principles of trade.
From June 30, 2020, to the present, Signet Securities has recommended sales totaling
$140 million to investors in 13 Regulation D private placement offerings. Some of these
sales were to accredited retail investors. At all times, the firm maintained written
procedures requiring the firm, when engaging in Regulation D offerings, to conduct a
reasonable investigation of the issuer and its management.
Despite these requirements, Signet Securities’ due diligence for some of the private
placement offerings that the firm recommended and sold between June 30, 2020, and the
present was not reasonable. All 13 offerings were sold by affiliates of a commercial real
estate investment company (Company A). The firm’s diligence review for these offerings
was limited to documents provided by Company A.
Therefore, Signet Securities willfully violated Exchange Act Rule 15l-1(a)(1), and
violated FINRA Rules 3110 and 2010.
Outside Business Activity Supervision
FINRA Rule 3270 prohibits registered persons from engaging in an OBA unless they
provide prior written notice to the member firm, in such form as specified by the
member. Supplementary Material .01 to FINRA Rule 3270 (Rule 3270.01) defines the
obligations of a member upon receiving such notice and establishes express requirements
for firms to analyze the proposed OBA and document the analysis:
Upon receipt of a written notice under Rule 3270, a member shall
consider whether the proposed activity will: (1) interfere with or
otherwise compromise the registered person’s responsibilities to
3

the member and/or the member’s customers or (2) be viewed by
customers or the public as part of the member’s business based
upon, among other factors, the nature of the proposed activity and
the manner in which it will be offered. Based on the member’s
review of such factors, the member must evaluate the advisability
of imposing specific conditions or limitations on a registered
person’s outside business activity, including where circumstances
warrant, prohibiting the activity.
A violation of FINRA Rule 3270.01 is also a violation of FINRA Rule 2010.
In January 2020, four registered representatives who were also employed by an affiliate
of Company A became registered with Signet Securities. The firm and its principals were
aware at all relevant times that these four registered representatives were engaged in
outside business activities, including outside activities with Company A. They also knew
that these activities could create a potential conflict of interest because the firm
recommended and sold securities offered by Company A to its customers. However, until
September 2021, Signet Securities did not require these representatives to provide written
notice of the OBA. Therefore, between January 2020 and September 2021, the firm failed
to reasonably supervise the outside business activities of its registered representatives.
In August and September 2021, Signet Securities required all four registered
representatives to provide written notice of the OBA, which was reviewed and signed by
one of the firm’s supervisory principals. A fifth registered representative employed by the
Company A affiliate became registered with the firm in February 2022 and also provided
written notice which was reviewed and approved by one of the firm’s supervisory
principals. For all five registered representatives, the firm did not adequately document
that it reasonably considered the factors set forth in Rule 3270.01 during its review of
these disclosures. Specifically, although the firm acknowledged that the outside activities
might be viewed by customers or the public as part of the firm’s business and that they
may involve giving advice or directing investments in securities, they did not consider
whether conditions or limitations should be imposed on those outside activities in order
to mitigate any potential conflict of interest or customer confusion.
Therefore, Signet Securities violated FINRA Rules 3110, 3270.01 and 2010.
Form CRS
On June 5, 2019, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) adopted Form CRS
and rules creating new requirements—which include requirements to prepare and deliver
the Form CRS—for SEC-registered broker-dealers offering services to a retail investor.
The compliance date for Form CRS was June 30, 2020.
Form CRS provides customers with information about the types of services the firm
offers; the fees, costs, conflicts of interest, and required standard of conduct associated
with those services; whether the firm and its investment professionals have reportable
legal or disciplinary history; and how to get more information about the firm.
4

Form CRS also includes required “conversation starters” to help begin a discussion with
a broker-dealer about the relationship, including their services, fees, costs, conflicts, and
disciplinary information.
Section 17(a)(1) of the Exchange Act requires registered broker-dealers to make and keep
for prescribed periods such records, furnish such copies thereof, and make and
disseminate such reports as the Commission deems “necessary or appropriate in the
public interest, for the protection of investors or otherwise in furtherance of the purposes
of” the Exchange Act. Exchange Act Rule 17a-14—titled “Form CRS, for preparation,
filing and delivery of Form CRS”—requires broker-dealers offering services to a retail
investor to prepare a Form CRS in accordance with the instructions in Form CRS, and to
comply with requirements related to filing, amending, delivering, and posting the Form
CRS to the firm’s public website.
A violation of Exchange Act Section 17(a)(1) and Rule 17a-14 is also a violation of
FINRA Rule 2010.
As of June 30, 2020, Signet Securities implemented written supervisory procedures for
delivering Form CRS to its customers. However, between June 30, 2020, and April 14,
2022, the firm failed to deliver Form CRS to any of the 282 retail customers who
purchased securities through the firm during that time period. After April 14, 2022, the
firm began delivering Form CRS to customers but failed to deliver Form CRS to any of
the firm’s existing customers.
Therefore, Signet Securities willfully violated Exchange Act Section 17(a)(1) and Rule
17a-14 and FINRA Rule 2010.
B.

Respondent also consents to the imposition of the following sanctions:


a censure



a $100,000 fine



an undertaking that, within 60 days of the date of the notice of acceptance of this
AWC, a member of Respondent’s senior management who is a registered
principal of the firm, shall certify in writing that, as of the date of the certification,
the firm has remediated the issues identified in this AWC and implemented a
supervisory system, including written supervisory procedures, reasonably
designed to achieve compliance with Exchange Act Rule 15l-1(a)(1), and FINRA
Rules 3110, 3270.01, regarding the issues identified in this AWC. The
certification shall include a narrative description and supporting exhibits
sufficient to demonstrate Respondent’s remediation and implementation. FINRA
staff may request further evidence of Respondent’s remediation and
implementation, and Respondent agrees to provide such evidence, if requested.
Respondent shall submit the certification to Catherine L. Hoge, Counsel, FINRA
Department of Enforcement, 200 Liberty Street, New York, NY 10281,
5

Catherine.Hoge@finra.org, with a copy to EnforcementNotice@finra.org. Upon
written request showing good cause, FINRA staff may extend this deadline.
Respondent agrees to pay the monetary sanction upon notice that this AWC has been
accepted and that such payment is due and payable. Respondent has submitted an
Election of Payment form showing the method by which it proposes to pay the fine
imposed.
Respondent specifically and voluntarily waives any right to claim an inability to pay, now
or at any time after the execution of this AWC, the monetary sanction imposed in this
matter.
Respondent understands that this settlement includes a finding that it willfully violated
Section 17(a)(1) and Rules 17a-14 and 15l-1(a)(1) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 and that under Article III, Section 4 of FINRA’s By-Laws, this makes Respondent
subject to a statutory disqualification with respect to membership.
The sanctions imposed in this AWC shall be effective on a date set by FINRA.
II.
WAIVER OF PROCEDURAL RIGHTS
Respondent specifically and voluntarily waives the following rights granted under FINRA’s
Code of Procedure:
A.

To have a complaint issued specifying the allegations against it;

B.

To be notified of the complaint and have the opportunity to answer the allegations
in writing;

C.

To defend against the allegations in a disciplinary hearing before a hearing panel,
to have a written record of the hearing made, and to have a written decision
issued; and

D.

To appeal any such decision to the National Adjudicatory Council (NAC) and
then to the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission and a U.S. Court of
Appeals.

Further, Respondent specifically and voluntarily waives any right to claim bias or prejudgment
of the Chief Legal Officer, the NAC, or any member of the NAC, in connection with such
person’s or body’s participation in discussions regarding the terms and conditions of this AWC,
or other consideration of this AWC, including its acceptance or rejection.
Respondent further specifically and voluntarily waives any right to claim that a person violated
the ex parte prohibitions of FINRA Rule 9143 or the separation of functions prohibitions of
FINRA Rule 9144, in connection with such person’s or body’s participation in discussions
6

regarding the terms and conditions of this AWC, or other consideration of this AWC, including
its acceptance or rejection.
III.
OTHER MATTERS
Respondent understands that:
A.

Submission of this AWC is voluntary and will not resolve this matter unless and
until it has been reviewed and accepted by the NAC, a Review Subcommittee of
the NAC, or the Office of Disciplinary Affairs (ODA), pursuant to FINRA Rule
9216;

B.

If this AWC is not accepted, its submission will not be used as evidence to prove
any of the allegations against Respondent; and

C.

If accepted:
1.

this AWC will become part of Respondent’s permanent disciplinary
record and may be considered in any future action brought by FINRA or
any other regulator against Respondent;

2.

this AWC will be made available through FINRA’s public disclosure
program in accordance with FINRA Rule 8313;

3.

FINRA may make a public announcement concerning this agreement and
its subject matter in accordance with FINRA Rule 8313; and
Respondent may not take any action or make or permit to be made any
public statement, including in regulatory filings or otherwise, denying,
directly or indirectly, any finding in this AWC or create the impression
that the AWC is without factual basis. Respondent may not take any
position in any proceeding brought by or on behalf of FINRA, or to which
FINRA is a party, that is inconsistent with any part of this AWC. Nothing
in this provision affects Respondent’s right to take legal or factual
positions in litigation or other legal proceedings in which FINRA is not a
party. Nothing in this provision affects Respondent’s testimonial
obligations in any litigation or other legal proceedings.

4.

D.

Respondent may attach a corrective action statement to this AWC that is a
statement of demonstrable corrective steps taken to prevent future misconduct.
Respondent understands that it may not deny the charges or make any statement
that is inconsistent with the AWC in this statement. This statement does not
constitute factual or legal findings by FINRA, nor does it reflect the views of
FINRA.

7

The undersigned, on behalf of Respondent, certifies that a person duly authorized to act on
Respondent’s behalf has read and understands all of the provisions of this AWC and has been
given a full opportunity to ask questions about it; that Respondent has agreed to the AWC’s
provisions voluntarily; and that no offer, threat, inducement, or promise of any kind, other than
the terms set forth in this AWC and the prospect of avoiding the issuance of a complaint, has
been made to induce Respondent to submit this AWC.
September 23, 2024

Date

____________________________________
Signet Securities, LLC
Respondent
Print Name:
Title:

David Fumi

President

Reviewed by:
_______________________
Joseph S. Simms
Counsel for Respondent
Reminger Co., L.P.A.
200 Public Square
Suite 1200
Cleveland, OH 44114
Accepted by FINRA:
Signed on behalf of the
Director of ODA, by delegated authority
October 3, 2024

Date

Catherine L. Hoge
Counsel
FINRA
Department of Enforcement
Brookfield Place
200 Liberty Street
New York, NY 10281

8

