FINANCIAL INDUSTRY REGULATORY AUTHORITY
LETTER OF ACCEPTANCE, WAIVER, AND CONSENT
NO. 2021069380201
TO:

Department of Enforcement
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA)

RE:

DMK Advisor Group, Inc. (Respondent)
Member Firm
CRD No. 41067

Pursuant to FINRA Rule 9216, Respondent DMK Advisor Group, Inc. submits this Letter of
Acceptance, Waiver, and Consent (AWC) for the purpose of proposing a settlement of the
alleged rule violations described below. This AWC is submitted on the condition that, if
accepted, FINRA will not bring any future actions against Respondent alleging violations based
on the same factual findings described in this AWC.
I.
ACCEPTANCE AND CONSENT
A.

Respondent accepts and consents to the following findings by FINRA without admitting
or denying them:
BACKGROUND
DMK became a FINRA member firm in 1996. The firm has seven branches and 39
registered representatives. DMK conducts a general securities business with retail
customers.1
OVERVIEW
From June 30, 2020, to June 15, 2022, DMK failed to establish, maintain, and enforce a
supervisory system, including WSPs, reasonably designed to achieve compliance with
Exchange Act Rule 17a-14, which required the firm to timely prepare, file, and deliver its
Form CRS to retail customers by July 30, 2020. DMK also failed to deliver its Form CRS
to certain of its customers until October 2022. DMK therefore willfully violated Section
17(a)(1) of the Exchange Act and Rule 17a-14 thereunder and violated FINRA Rules
3110 and 2010.
DMK also failed to establish, maintain, and enforce a supervisory system, including
written supervisory procedures (WSPs), reasonably designed to achieve compliance with
Exchange Act Rule 15l-1 (Regulation Best Interest or Reg BI). As a result, DMK violated
Exchange Act Rule 15l-1 and FINRA Rules 3110 and 2010.

1

For more information about the firm, including prior regulatory events, visit BrokerCheck® at
www finra.org/brokercheck.

FACTS AND VIOLATIVE CONDUCT
This matter originated from the 2021 cycle examination of DMK.
DMK Failed to Have a Supervisory System, Including WSPs, Reasonably Designed
to Achieve Compliance with its Form CRS Obligations, and the Firm Failed to
Timely Deliver Form CRS to Certain Customers.
On June 5, 2019, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) adopted Form CRS
and rules creating new requirements—which include requirements to deliver the Form
CRS—for SEC-registered broker-dealers offering services to retail investors. The
compliance date for Form CRS was June 30, 2020.
Form CRS provides customers with information about the types of services the firm
offers; the fees, costs, conflicts of interest, and required standard of conduct associated
with those services; whether the firm and its investment professionals have reportable
legal or disciplinary history; and how to get more information about the firm.
Form CRS also includes required “conversation starters” to help begin a discussion with
a broker-dealer about the relationship, including their services, fees, costs, conflicts, and
disciplinary information.
Section 17(a)(1) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 requires registered brokerdealers to make and keep for prescribed periods such records, furnish such copies thereof,
and make and disseminate such reports as the Commission deems “necessary or
appropriate in the public interest, for the protection of investors or otherwise in
furtherance of the purposes of” the Exchange Act. Exchange Act Rule 17a-14—titled
“Form CRS, for preparation, filing and delivery of Form CRS”—requires broker-dealers
offering services to a retail investor to prepare a Form CRS in accordance with the
instructions in Form CRS, and to comply with requirements related to filing, amending,
delivering, and posting the Form CRS to the firm’s public website. Rule 17a-14 also
requires broker-dealers to deliver their current Form CRS to each retail customer of the
firm. As relevant, under Rule 17a-14(f)(3), within 30 days after the date by which DMK
was first required to file its initial Form CRS with the SEC (i.e., no later than July 30,
2020), DMK was required to deliver its Form CRS to each existing retail customer of the
firm.
FINRA Rule 3110 requires member firms to establish, maintain, and enforce a
supervisory system, including WSPs, reasonably designed to achieve compliance with
applicable securities laws, regulations, and FINRA rules. A violation of Exchange Act
§ 17(a)(1), Exchange Act Rule 17a-14, and FINRA Rule 3110 also is a violation of
FINRA Rule 2010, which requires member firms to observe high standards of
commercial honor and just and equitable principles of trade in the conduct of their
business.

2

From June 30, 2020 to June 15, 2022, DMK failed to establish and maintain a
supervisory system, including WSPs, reasonably designed to achieve compliance with
Form CRS requirements. During this time period, DMK’s WSPs acknowledged that it
was required to deliver Form CRS to all retail customers, but did not prescribe any
procedures for supervising how the firm should file, deliver, and update the Form CRS.2
In June 2022, the firm updated its WSPs to provide additional guidance regarding Form
CRS.
DMK failed to timely deliver Form CRS to approximately 25% of the firm’s retail
customers. DMK arranged for its clearing firm to deliver the Form CRS to all customers
who had accounts with the clearing firm. However, DMK failed to deliver by July 30,
2020, the Form CRS to 241 customers of DMK who did direct business with the firm and
therefore did not have accounts with the clearing firm. After this issue was identified by
FINRA, DMK subsequently delivered its Form CRS to these customers in October 2022.
DMK therefore willfully violated Exchange Act § 17(a)(1) and Exchange Act Rule 17a14 and violated FINRA Rules 3110 and 2010.
DMK Failed to Have a Supervisory System, Including WSPs, Reasonably Designed
to Achieve Compliance with Regulation Best Interest.
As of June 30, 2020, broker-dealers and their associated persons are required to comply
with Reg BI under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
Reg BI requires a broker, dealer, or a natural person associated with a broker or dealer,
when making a recommendation of any securities transaction or investment strategy
involving securities (including account recommendations) to a retail customer, to act in
the best interest of that retail customer at the time the recommendation is made, without
placing the financial or other interest of the broker, dealer, or associated person ahead of
the interest of the retail customer.
Reg BI’s Compliance Obligation, set forth at Exchange Act Rule 15l-1(a)(2)(iv), requires
a broker-dealer to establish, maintain, and enforce written policies and procedures
reasonably designed to achieve compliance with Reg BI. Reg BI’s Adopting Release
provides that broker-dealers should consider the nature of that firm’s operations and how
to design such policies and procedures to prevent violations from occurring, to detect
violations that have occurred, and to correct promptly any violations that have occurred. 3
As noted above, FINRA Rule 3110 requires member firms to establish, maintain, and
enforce a supervisory system, including WSPs, to supervise the activities of each
associated person that is reasonably designed to achieve compliance with applicable
securities laws, regulations, and FINRA rules.
2

See 17a-14(b)(2) (filing requirement); 17a-14(b)(3) (updating requirement); 17a-14(c) (delivery requirement).

3

Regulation Best Interest: The Broker-Dealer Standard of Conduct, Exchange Act Release No. 86031, 84 FR 33318
at 33397 (July 12, 2019).

3

A violation of Exchange Act Rule 15l-1 and FINRA Rule 3110 also is a violation of
FINRA Rule 2010.
From June 30, 2020, to June 15, 2022, DMK failed to establish, maintain, and enforce a
supervisory system, including WSPs, reasonably designed to achieve compliance with
Reg BI. During that time, the firm’s WSPs concerning Reg BI provided only general
background information regarding the purpose of Reg BI. The WSPs did not address the
Care or Conflict of Interest Obligations of Reg BI,4 nor did they describe how to prevent,
detect, or promptly correct violations of Reg BI or to otherwise achieve compliance with
Reg BI. In June 2022, the firm updated its WSPs to provide additional guidance
regarding Reg BI.
Therefore, DMK violated Exchange Act Rule 15l-1 and FINRA Rules 3110 and 2010.
B.

Respondent also consents to the imposition of the following sanctions:
▪

a censure; and

▪

a $35,000 fine

Respondent agrees to pay the monetary sanction upon notice that this AWC has been
accepted and that such payment is due and payable. Respondent has submitted an
Election of Payment form showing the method by which it proposes to pay the fine
imposed.
Respondent specifically and voluntarily waives any right to claim an inability to pay, now
or at any time after the execution of this AWC, the monetary sanction imposed in this
matter.
Respondent understands that this settlement includes a finding that it willfully violated
Exchange Act Rule 17a-14 and that under Article III, Section 4 of FINRA’s By-Laws,
this makes Respondent subject to a statutory disqualification with respect to membership.
The sanctions imposed in this AWC shall be effective on a date set by FINRA.

Reg BI’s Care Obligation, set forth at Exchange Act Rule 15l-1(a)(2)(ii), requires broker-dealers and their
associated persons to exercise reasonable diligence, care, and skill to, among other things, have a reasonable basis to
believe that each recommended transaction or series of transactions made is in the best interest of the retail
customer. Reg BI’s Conflict of Interest Obligation, set forth at Exchange Act Rule 15l-1(a)(2)(iii), requires brokerdealers to establish, maintain, and enforce written policies and procedures addressing conflicts of interest, defined as
interests that might incline a broker-dealer or an associated person—consciously or unconsciously—to make a
recommendation that is not disinterested.
4

4

II.
WAIVER OF PROCEDURAL RIGHTS
Respondent specifically and voluntarily waives the following rights granted under FINRA’s
Code of Procedure:
A.

To have a complaint issued specifying the allegations against it;

B.

To be notified of the complaint and have the opportunity to answer the allegations
in writing;

C.

To defend against the allegations in a disciplinary hearing before a hearing panel,
to have a written record of the hearing made, and to have a written decision
issued; and

D.

To appeal any such decision to the National Adjudicatory Council (NAC) and
then to the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission and a U.S. Court of
Appeals.

Further, Respondent specifically and voluntarily waives any right to claim bias or prejudgment
of the Chief Legal Officer, the NAC, or any member of the NAC, in connection with such
person’s or body’s participation in discussions regarding the terms and conditions of this AWC,
or other consideration of this AWC, including its acceptance or rejection.
Respondent further specifically and voluntarily waives any right to claim that a person violated
the ex parte prohibitions of FINRA Rule 9143 or the separation of functions prohibitions of
FINRA Rule 9144, in connection with such person’s or body’s participation in discussions
regarding the terms and conditions of this AWC, or other consideration of this AWC, including
its acceptance or rejection.
III.
OTHER MATTERS
Respondent understands that:
A.

Submission of this AWC is voluntary and will not resolve this matter unless and
until it has been reviewed and accepted by the NAC, a Review Subcommittee of
the NAC, or the Office of Disciplinary Affairs (ODA), pursuant to FINRA Rule
9216;

B.

If this AWC is not accepted, its submission will not be used as evidence to prove
any of the allegations against Respondent; and

C.

If accepted:

5

D.

1.

this AWC will become part of Respondent’s permanent disciplinary
record and may be considered in any future action brought by FINRA or
any other regulator against Respondent;

2.

this AWC will be made available through FINRA’s public disclosure
program in accordance with FINRA Rule 8313;

3.

FINRA may make a public announcement concerning this agreement and
its subject matter in accordance with FINRA Rule 8313; and

4.

Respondent may not take any action or make or permit to be made any
public statement, including in regulatory filings or otherwise, denying,
directly or indirectly, any finding in this AWC or create the impression
that the AWC is without factual basis. Respondent may not take any
position in any proceeding brought by or on behalf of FINRA, or to which
FINRA is a party, that is inconsistent with any part of this AWC. Nothing
in this provision affects Respondent’s right to take legal or factual
positions in litigation or other legal proceedings in which FINRA is not a
party. Nothing in this provision affects Respondent’s testimonial
obligations in any litigation or other legal proceedings.

Respondent may attach a corrective action statement to this AWC that is a
statement of demonstrable corrective steps taken to prevent future misconduct.
Respondent understands that it may not deny the charges or make any statement
that is inconsistent with the AWC in this statement. This statement does not
constitute factual or legal findings by FINRA, nor does it reflect the views of
FINRA.

The undersigned, on behalf of Respondent, certifies that a person duly authorized to act on
Respondent’s behalf has read and understands all of the provisions of this AWC and has been
given a full opportunity to ask questions about it; that Respondent has agreed to the AWC’s
provisions voluntarily; and that no offer, threat, inducement, or promise of any kind, other than
the terms set forth in this AWC and the prospect of avoiding the issuance of a complaint, has
been made to induce Respondent to submit this AWC.
May 17, 2023

Date

____________________________________
DMK Advisor Group, Inc.
Respondent
Hal Schwartz

Print Name:
Title:

6

Chief Executive Officer

Accepted by FINRA:
Signed on behalf of the
Director of ODA, by delegated authority
May 18, 2023

Date

Karen C. Daly
Principal Counsel
FINRA
Department of Enforcement
1601 Market Street, Suite 2700
Philadelphia, PA 19103

7

