FINANCIAL INDUSTRY REGULATORY AUTHORITY
LETTER OF ACCEPTANCE, WAIVER, AND CONSENT
NO. 2021069335701
TO:

Department of Enforcement
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA)

RE:

Robert Spaulding Gleason Jr. (Respondent)
Former General Securities Representative
CRD No. 1415067

Pursuant to FINRA Rule 9216, Respondent Robert Spaulding Gleason Jr. submits this Letter of
Acceptance, Waiver, and Consent (AWC) for the purpose of proposing a settlement of the
alleged rule violations described below. This AWC is submitted on the condition that, if
accepted, FINRA will not bring any future actions against Respondent alleging violations based
on the same factual findings described in this AWC.
I.
ACCEPTANCE AND CONSENT
A.

Respondent accepts and consents to the following findings by FINRA without admitting
or denying them:
BACKGROUND
Gleason first became registered with FINRA as a General Securities Representative
(GSR) through an association with a FINRA member firm in 1985. In November 2016,
Gleason became registered as a GSR through an association with former FINRA member
Cantella & Co., Inc. On December 23, 2021, Cantella filed a Uniform Termination
Notice for Securities Industry Registration (Form U5) disclosing that it had terminated
Gleason’s association due to “[c]oncerns regarding the origin of notations added to firmrequested Active Account and Concentration client letters.” In February 2022, Gleason
became registered as a GSR through an association with a different FINRA member firm.
On May 6, 2022, that FINRA member filed a Form U5 disclosing that it had terminated
Gleason’s association because his “[t]rading practices exceed firm’s risk appetite.”
Although Gleason is not currently registered or associated with a FINRA member,
FINRA has jurisdiction over him pursuant to Article V, Section 4(a)(i) of FINRA’s ByLaws. 1
OVERVIEW
Between July 2020 and June 2021, while associated with Cantella, Gleason willfully
violated the Best Interest Obligation under Rule 15l-1(a)(1) of the Securities Exchange

1

For more information about the respondent, visit BrokerCheck® at www finra.org/brokercheck.

Act of 1934 and violated FINRA Rule 2010 by recommending a series of transactions in
the account of a retail customer that was excessive in light of the customer’s investment
profile and, therefore, was not in the customer’s best interest.
FACTS AND VIOLATIVE CONDUCT
This matter originated from FINRA’s cycle exam of Cantella.
As of June 30, 2020, broker-dealers and their associated persons are required to comply
with Regulation BI under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Rule 15l-1(a)(1) of Reg
BI requires a broker, dealer, or a natural person associated with a broker or dealer, when
making a recommendation of any securities transaction or investment strategy involving
securities (including account recommendations) to a retail customer, to act in the best
interest of that retail customer at the time the recommendation is made, without placing
the financial or other interest of the broker, dealer, or associated person ahead of the
interest of the retail customer. Reg BI’s Care Obligation, set forth at Exchange Act Rule
15l-1(a)(2)(ii), requires broker-dealers and their associated persons to exercise reasonable
diligence, care, and skill to, among other things, have a reasonable basis to believe that a
series of recommended transactions, even if in the retail customer’s best interest when
viewed in isolation, is not excessive and is in the retail customer’s best interest in light of
the retail customer’s investment profile.
No single test defines when trading is excessive, but factors such as the turnover rate, the
cost-to-equity ratio, and the use of in-and-out trading in a customer’s account are relevant
to determining whether a member firm or associated person has excessively traded a
customer’s account in violation of Reg BI. The turnover rate represents the number of
times that a portfolio of securities is exchanged for another portfolio of securities. The
cost-to-equity ratio measures the amount an account must appreciate just to cover
commissions and other expenses. In other words, it is the break-even point where a
customer may begin to see a return. A turnover rate of six or more, or a cost-to-equity
ratio above 20 percent, generally indicates that a series of recommended transactions was
excessive.
A violation of Reg BI also is a violation of FINRA Rule 2010, which requires associated
persons to “observe high standards of commercial honor and just and equitable principles
of trade” in the conduct of their business.
Gleason recommended to a retail customer (Customer A) a series of transactions that
were excessive in light of the customer’s investment profile. In so doing, Gleason placed
his interests ahead of the interests of the customer. At the time of the trading, the
customer was in her early sixties, and had an investment profile reflecting an income of
$50,000 and a liquid net worth of $700,000. Gleason’s recommendations for the
customer involved a pattern of in-and-out, short-term trading, and Gleason failed to
consider the cumulative costs of his trading.
Between July 2020 and June 2021, Gleason effected 91 trades in Customer A’s account.
Collectively, these trades resulted in a cost-to-equity ratio exceeding 28%—meaning that
2

Customer A’s account would have had to grow by more than 28% during the 11-month
period just to break even—and a turnover rate of 12.93. Although Customer A’s average
account balance during this period was approximately $101,000, Gleason effected the
purchase of approximately $1.3 million in securities. Customer A paid more than $28,000
in commissions and trade costs. 2
Therefore, Gleason willfully violated Exchange Act Rule 15l-1(a)(1) and violated FINRA
Rule 2010.
B.

Respondent also consents to the imposition of the following sanctions:


a three-month suspension from associating with any FINRA member in all
capacities and



a $5,000 fine.

The fine shall be due and payable either immediately upon reassociation with a member
firm or prior to any application or request for relief from any statutory disqualification
resulting from this or any other event or proceeding, whichever is earlier.
Respondent specifically and voluntarily waives any right to claim an inability to pay, now
or at any time after the execution of this AWC, the monetary sanction imposed in this
matter.
Respondent understands that if he is barred or suspended from associating with any
FINRA member, he becomes subject to a statutory disqualification as that term is defined
in Article III, Section 4 of FINRA’s By-Laws, incorporating Section 3(a)(39) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Accordingly, he may not be associated with any
FINRA member in any capacity, including clerical or ministerial functions, during the
period of the bar or suspension. See FINRA Rules 8310 and 8311.
Respondent understands that this settlement includes a finding that he willfully violated
Rule 15l-1 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and that under Article III, Section 4 of
FINRA’s By-Laws, this makes him subject to a statutory disqualification with respect to
association with a member.
The sanctions imposed in this AWC shall be effective on a date set by FINRA.
II.
WAIVER OF PROCEDURAL RIGHTS
Respondent specifically and voluntarily waives the following rights granted under FINRA’s
Code of Procedure:
A.
2

To have a complaint issued specifying the allegations against him;

Gleason settled with Customer A through voluntary mediation.

3

B.

To be notified of the complaint and have the opportunity to answer the allegations
in writing;

C.

To defend against the allegations in a disciplinary hearing before a hearing panel,
to have a written record of the hearing made, and to have a written decision
issued; and

D.

To appeal any such decision to the National Adjudicatory Council (NAC) and
then to the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission and a U.S. Court of
Appeals.

Further, Respondent specifically and voluntarily waives any right to claim bias or prejudgment
of the Chief Legal Officer, the NAC, or any member of the NAC, in connection with such
person’s or body’s participation in discussions regarding the terms and conditions of this AWC,
or other consideration of this AWC, including its acceptance or rejection.
Respondent further specifically and voluntarily waives any right to claim that a person violated
the ex parte prohibitions of FINRA Rule 9143 or the separation of functions prohibitions of
FINRA Rule 9144, in connection with such person’s or body’s participation in discussions
regarding the terms and conditions of this AWC, or other consideration of this AWC, including
its acceptance or rejection.
III.
OTHER MATTERS
Respondent understands that:
A.

Submission of this AWC is voluntary and will not resolve this matter unless and
until it has been reviewed and accepted by the NAC, a Review Subcommittee of
the NAC, or the Office of Disciplinary Affairs (ODA), pursuant to FINRA Rule
9216;

B.

If this AWC is not accepted, its submission will not be used as evidence to prove
any of the allegations against Respondent; and

C.

If accepted:
1.

this AWC will become part of Respondent’s permanent disciplinary
record and may be considered in any future action brought by FINRA or
any other regulator against Respondent;

2.

this AWC will be made available through FINRA’s public disclosure
program in accordance with FINRA Rule 8313;

4

D.

3.

FINRA may make a public announcement concerning this agreement and
its subject matter in accordance with FINRA Rule 8313; and

4.

Respondent may not take any action or make or permit to be made any
public statement, including in regulatory filings or otherwise, denying,
directly or indirectly, any finding in this AWC or create the impression
that the AWC is without factual basis. Respondent may not take any
position in any proceeding brought by or on behalf of FINRA, or to which
FINRA is a party, that is inconsistent with any part of this AWC. Nothing
in this provision affects Respondent’s right to take legal or factual
positions in litigation or other legal proceedings in which FINRA is not a
party. Nothing in this provision affects Respondent’s testimonial
obligations in any litigation or other legal proceedings.

Respondent may attach a corrective action statement to this AWC that is a
statement of demonstrable corrective steps taken to prevent future misconduct.
Respondent understands that he may not deny the charges or make any statement
that is inconsistent with the AWC in this statement. This statement does not
constitute factual or legal findings by FINRA, nor does it reflect the views of
FINRA.

5

Respondent certifies that he has read and understands all of the provisions of this AWC and has
been given a full opportunity to ask questions about it; Respondent has agreed to the AWC’s
provisions voluntarily; and no offer, threat, inducement, or promise of any kind, other than the
terms set forth in this AWC and the prospect of avoiding the issuance of a complaint, has been
made to induce him/ to submit this AWC.
April 2, 2024

Date

Robert Spaulding Gleason Jr.
Respondent

Reviewed by:
__________________________
James. P. Catalano
The Catalano Firm, PLC
PO Box 681267
Franklin, TN 37068-1267
Accepted by FINRA:
Signed on behalf of the
Director of ODA, by delegated authority
April 5, 2024

Date

Chandana Kolavala
Principal Counsel
FINRA
Department of Enforcement
300 S. Grand Avenue, Suite 1600
Los Angeles, CA 90071

6

