FINANCIAL INDUSTRY REGULATORY AUTHORITY
LETTER OF ACCEPTANCE, WAIVER, AND CONSENT
NO. 2022076103701
TO:

Department of Enforcement
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA)

RE:

Axos Invest LLC (Respondent)
Member Firm
CRD No. 172393

Pursuant to FINRA Rule 9216, Respondent Axos Invest LLC submits this Letter of Acceptance,
Waiver, and Consent (AWC) for the purpose of proposing a settlement of the alleged rule
violations described below. This AWC is submitted on the condition that, if accepted, FINRA
will not bring any future actions against Respondent alleging violations based on the same
factual findings described in this AWC.
I.
ACCEPTANCE AND CONSENT
A.

Respondent accepts and consents to the following findings by FINRA without admitting
or denying them:
BACKGROUND
Axos Invest LLC became a FINRA member firm in 2015. The firm, which is
headquartered in Las Vegas, Nevada, has two branch offices and 15 registered
representatives. Axos Invest LLC’s primary business consists of self-directed accounts
for retail investors. 1
OVERVIEW
From June 30, 2020, to February 6, 2023, Axos Invest LLC falsely responded “No” to the
question on the firm’s customer relationship summary (Form CRS) concerning legal or
disciplinary history. The firm was required to respond “Yes,” because a control affiliate
of the firm, and two of the firm’s registered representatives, had prior legal or
disciplinary history. By filing and delivering to customers two versions of its Form CRS
(an initial version and an amended version) containing inaccurate information, Axos
Invest LLC willfully violated Section 17(a)(1) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934,
Exchange Act Rule 17a-14, and FINRA Rule 2010.

1

For more information about the firm, visit BrokerCheck® at www.finra.org/brokercheck.

FACTS AND VIOLATIVE CONDUCT
This matter originated from a FINRA cause examination.
On June 5, 2019, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) adopted Form CRS
and rules creating new requirements—which include requirements to prepare, file, and
deliver the Form CRS—for SEC-registered broker-dealers offering services to a retail
investor. The compliance date for Form CRS was June 30, 2020.
Form CRS provides customers with information about the types of services the firm
offers; the fees, costs, conflicts of interest, and required standard of conduct associated
with those services; whether the firm and its investment professionals have reportable
legal or disciplinary history; and how to get more information about the firm.
Form CRS also includes required “conversation starters” to help begin a discussion with
a broker-dealer about the relationship, including their services, fees, costs, conflicts, and
disciplinary information.
Section 17(a)(1) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 requires registered brokerdealers to make and keep for prescribed periods such records, furnish such copies thereof,
and make and disseminate such reports as the Commission deems “necessary or
appropriate in the public interest, for the protection of investors or otherwise in
furtherance of the purposes of” the Exchange Act. Exchange Act Rule 17a-14—titled
“Form CRS, for preparation, filing and delivery of Form CRS”—requires broker-dealers
offering services to a retail investor to prepare a Form CRS in accordance with the
instructions in Form CRS, and to comply with requirements related to filing, amending,
delivering, and posting the Form CRS to the firm’s public website.
A violation of Exchange Act § 17(a)(1) and Exchange Act Rule 17a-14 also is a violation
of FINRA Rule 2010, which requires member firms to observe high standards of
commercial honor and just and equitable principles of trade in the conduct of their
business.
Form CRS contains the heading, “Do you or your financial professionals have legal or
disciplinary history?” The instructions to Form CRS state that a firm must respond “Yes”
if it or any of its financial professionals discloses, or is required to disclose, legal or
disciplinary history on specified regulatory disclosure forms, such as Forms BD, U4, U5,
and U6. 2 Legal or disciplinary history that is required to be disclosed on those forms
2
These forms are submitted to the Central Registration Depository by member firms or regulators. Broker-dealers
file Form BD (Uniform Application for Broker-Dealer Regulation) to become registered with the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission, FINRA, other self-regulatory organizations, and jurisdictions (e.g., U.S. states and
territories); Form U4 (Uniform Application for Securities Industry Registration or Transfer) is used to elicit
employment history, disciplinary, and other information about individuals, to register them with FINRA, other selfregulatory organizations, or jurisdictions; Form U5 (Uniform Termination Notice for Securities Industry
Registration) is used to terminate individuals’ registrations with FINRA, other self-regulatory organizations, or
jurisdictions, and to elicit details regarding the reasons for termination; and Form U6 is used by regulators to report
disclosure events and disciplinary actions against individuals and organizations, and to report final FINRA
arbitration awards against broker-dealers and associated persons.

2

includes criminal history, regulatory actions, civil judicial actions, and specified financial
events (e.g., bankruptcies, judgments, and liens). Because a firm must disclose on Form
BD not only its own legal or disciplinary history, but also that of its “control affiliates,” 3
a firm must respond “Yes” to the Form CRS question concerning legal or disciplinary
history if any of its control affiliates has legal or disciplinary history. 4
Axos Invest LLC falsely responded “No” to the question concerning legal or disciplinary
history on the initial Form CRS it filed on June 29, 2020, and on the amended Form CRS
it filed on April 22, 2022. The firm was required to respond “Yes” on both Forms CRS.
At the time the firm filed its initial Form CRS, a control affiliate and one of the firm’s
registered representatives had prior legal or disciplinary history. At the time the firm filed
its amended Form CRS, the affiliate and two of the firm’s registered representatives had
prior legal or disciplinary history.
Before filing these Forms CRS, regulatory disclosures reflecting the affiliate’s and
registered representatives’ legal or disciplinary history had already been made by, or
were available to, the firm in FINRA’s Central Registration Depository (CRD) and in
BrokerCheck®. Specifically, the firm had already disclosed on its Form BD that the
affiliate had been the subject of disciplinary actions. This affiliate had been the subject of
13 disciplinary actions, which occurred between 2004 and 2019 (when the affiliate was
under different ownership), and which included findings for failing to file suspicious
activity reports relating to the deposit and sale of low-priced securities, failing to develop
and implement a written anti-money laundering program reasonably designed to achieve
compliance with the Bank Secrecy Act, failing to provide customers with margin interest
rate disclosures, and failing to comply with Regulation SHO’s close-out requirements for
short sales. In addition, a Form U4 filing for one of the firm’s registered representatives
disclosed a bankruptcy filing, and Form U4 and U5 filings for the other registered
representative disclosed a customer complaint. Despite having disclosed the affiliate’s
legal or disciplinary history on its Form BD—and despite its knowledge of its registered
representatives’ legal or disciplinary history—Axos Invest LLC incorrectly responded
“No” to the Form CRS question concerning legal or disciplinary history. 5
Therefore, Axos Invest LLC willfully violated Exchange Act § 17(a)(1), Exchange Act
Rule 17a-14, and FINRA Rule 2010.

According to Form BD, a “control affiliate” includes any individual or organization that directly or indirectly
controls, is under common control with, or is controlled by, a firm.
3

See U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, Frequently Asked Questions on Form CRS, available at
https://www.sec.gov/investment/form-crs-faq.

4

Following FINRA’s investigation, Axos Invest LLC updated its Form CRS, effective February 6, 2023, to respond
“Yes” to the question concerning legal or disciplinary history.

5

3

B.

Respondent also consents to the imposition of the following sanctions:


a censure and



a $75,000 fine.

Respondent agrees to pay the monetary sanction upon notice that this AWC has been
accepted and that such payment is due and payable. Respondent has submitted an
Election of Payment form showing the method by which it proposes to pay the fine
imposed.
Respondent specifically and voluntarily waives any right to claim an inability to pay, now
or at any time after the execution of this AWC, the monetary sanction imposed in this
matter.
Respondent understands that this settlement includes a finding that it willfully violated
Section 17(a)(1) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and Rule 17a-14 thereunder, and
that under Article III, Section 4 of FINRA’s By-Laws, this makes Respondent subject to
a statutory disqualification with respect to membership.
The sanctions imposed in this AWC shall be effective on a date set by FINRA.
II.
WAIVER OF PROCEDURAL RIGHTS
Respondent specifically and voluntarily waives the following rights granted under FINRA’s
Code of Procedure:
A.

To have a complaint issued specifying the allegations against it;

B.

To be notified of the complaint and have the opportunity to answer the allegations
in writing;

C.

To defend against the allegations in a disciplinary hearing before a hearing panel,
to have a written record of the hearing made, and to have a written decision
issued; and

D.

To appeal any such decision to the National Adjudicatory Council (NAC) and
then to the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission and a U.S. Court of
Appeals.

Further, Respondent specifically and voluntarily waives any right to claim bias or prejudgment
of the Chief Legal Officer, the NAC, or any member of the NAC, in connection with such
person’s or body’s participation in discussions regarding the terms and conditions of this AWC,
or other consideration of this AWC, including its acceptance or rejection.
4

Respondent further specifically and voluntarily waives any right to claim that a person violated
the ex parte prohibitions of FINRA Rule 9143 or the separation of functions prohibitions of
FINRA Rule 9144, in connection with such person’s or body’s participation in discussions
regarding the terms and conditions of this AWC, or other consideration of this AWC, including
its acceptance or rejection.
III.
OTHER MATTERS
Respondent understands that:
A.

Submission of this AWC is voluntary and will not resolve this matter unless and
until it has been reviewed and accepted by the NAC, a Review Subcommittee of
the NAC, or the Office of Disciplinary Affairs (ODA), pursuant to FINRA Rule
9216;

B.

If this AWC is not accepted, its submission will not be used as evidence to prove
any of the allegations against Respondent; and

C.

If accepted:

D.

1.

this AWC will become part of Respondent’s permanent disciplinary
record and may be considered in any future action brought by FINRA or
any other regulator against Respondent;

2.

this AWC will be made available through FINRA’s public disclosure
program in accordance with FINRA Rule 8313;

3.

FINRA may make a public announcement concerning this agreement and
its subject matter in accordance with FINRA Rule 8313; and

4.

Respondent may not take any action or make or permit to be made any
public statement, including in regulatory filings or otherwise, denying,
directly or indirectly, any finding in this AWC or create the impression
that the AWC is without factual basis. Respondent may not take any
position in any proceeding brought by or on behalf of FINRA, or to which
FINRA is a party, that is inconsistent with any part of this AWC. Nothing
in this provision affects Respondent’s right to take legal or factual
positions in litigation or other legal proceedings in which FINRA is not a
party. Nothing in this provision affects Respondent’s testimonial
obligations in any litigation or other legal proceedings.

Respondent may attach a corrective action statement to this AWC that is a
statement of demonstrable corrective steps taken to prevent future misconduct.
Respondent understands that it may not deny the charges or make any statement
that is inconsistent with the AWC in this statement. This statement does not
5

constitute factual or legal findings by FINRA, nor does it reflect the views of
FINRA.
The undersigned, on behalf of Respondent, certifies that a person duly authorized to act on
Respondent’s behalf has read and understands all of the provisions of this AWC and has been
given a full opportunity to ask questions about it; that Respondent has agreed to the AWC’s
provisions voluntarily; and that no offer, threat, inducement, or promise of any kind, other than
the terms set forth in this AWC and the prospect of avoiding the issuance of a complaint, has
been made to induce Respondent to submit this AWC.
May 9, 2023

Date

____________________________________
Axos Invest LLC
Respondent
Print Name:
Title:

Derrick Walsh

CFO

Reviewed by:

_______________________
Daniel M. Hawke
Counsel for Respondent
Arnold & Porter
601 Massachusetts Ave, NW
Washington, DC 20001

Accepted by FINRA:
Signed on behalf of the
Director of ODA, by delegated authority

May 19, 2023

Date

Rebecca Segrest
Senior Counsel
FINRA
Department of Enforcement
303 Perimeter Center North, Suite 550
Atlanta, GA 30346

6

