FINANCIAL INDUSTRY REGULATORY AUTHORITY
LETTER OF ACCEPTANCE, WAIVER, AND CONSENT
NO. 2022076855802
TO:

Department of Enforcement
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA)

RE:

Angelo J. Piccone (Respondent)
Former General Securities Representative
CRD No. 1401761

Pursuant to FINRA Rule 9216, Respondent Angelo J. Piccone submits this Letter of Acceptance,
Waiver, and Consent (AWC) for the purpose of proposing a settlement of the alleged rule
violations described below. This AWC is submitted on the condition that, if accepted, FINRA
will not bring any future actions against Respondent alleging violations based on the same
factual findings described in this AWC.
I.
ACCEPTANCE AND CONSENT
A.

Respondent accepts and consents to the following findings by FINRA without admitting
or denying them:
BACKGROUND
Piccone first became registered with FINRA as an Investment Company and Variable
Contracts Products Representative (IR) in 1985 through an association with a member
firm. He then became registered with FINRA as a Direct Participation Programs
Representative (DR) in 1988, and as a General Securities Representative (GS) in 1992,
through his association with that member firm. Piccone was subsequently associated with
other member firms. In April 2011, Piccone became registered with FINRA as an IR, DR,
and GS through an association with IBN Financial Services, Inc. (CRD No. 42360). On
November 15, 2024, IBN filed a Uniform Termination Notice for Securities Industry
Registration (Form U5) reflecting Piccone’s resignation from IBN.
Although Piccone is no longer registered or associated with any FINRA member firm, he
remains subject to FINRA’s jurisdiction pursuant to Article V, Section 4 of FINRA’s ByLaws.1
OVERVIEW
Between November 2020 and February 2021, while associated with IBN, Piccone
recommended that a retail customer invest 77% of her net worth, not including her

1

For more information about the respondent, visit BrokerCheck® at www.finra.org/brokercheck.

primary residence, in speculative alternative investments. Piccone’s recommendations to
the customer were not in the customer’s best interest based on her investment profile.
Therefore, Piccone willfully violated Rule 15l-1(a)(1) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 (Reg BI) and violated FINRA Rule 2010.
From April 2021 to June 2022, Piccone used his personal mobile device to exchange text
messages with the customer to conduct securities business. In one of those
communications, Piccone made an unbalanced, promissory and misleading statement to
the customer regarding the prospects for recovery related to one of her investments.
Because Piccone used an unapproved channel for business-related communications, IBN
was unable to preserve those communications as required by Section 17(a) of the
Exchange Act and Rule 17a-4(b)(4) thereunder. By causing IBN to maintain incomplete
books and records, Piccone violated FINRA Rules 4511 and 2010, and by sending an
unbalanced, promissory, and misleading communication to a customer, Piccone violated
FINRA Rules 2210(d) and 2010.
FACTS AND VIOLATIVE CONDUCT
1. Legal framework
As of June 30, 2020, broker-dealers and their associated persons are required to comply
with Regulation BI under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Rule 15l-1(a)(1) of Reg
BI requires a broker, dealer, or a natural person associated with a broker or dealer, when
making a recommendation of any securities transaction or investment strategy involving
securities (including account recommendations) to a retail customer, to act in the best
interest of that retail customer at the time the recommendation is made, without placing
the financial or other interest of the broker, dealer, or associated person ahead of the
interest of the retail customer. Reg BI’s Care Obligation, set forth at Rule 15l-1(a)(2)(ii),
requires broker-dealers and their associated persons to exercise reasonable diligence,
care, and skill to, among other things, have a reasonable basis to believe that the
recommendation is in the best interest of a particular retail customer based on that retail
customer’s investment profile and the potential risks, rewards, and costs associated with
the recommendation. Reg BI defines a “retail customer investment profile” to include,
but not be limited to, the customer’s age, other investments, financial situation and needs,
tax status, investment objectives, investment experience, investment time horizon,
liquidity needs, risk tolerance, and any other information the customer may disclose to
the member or associated person in connection with such recommendation.
A recommendation may not be suitable or in the best interest of a customer if it results in
a concentration in a particular security or category of securities that creates a risk of loss
inconsistent with the customer’s investment profile.
Violations of Reg BI are also violations of FINRA Rule 2010, which requires members
and associated persons to “observe high standards of commercial honor and just and
equitable principles of trade” in the conduct of their business.

2

2. GWG Holdings, Inc.
GWG is a publicly traded financial services company. Prior to 2018, GWG purchased life
insurance policies through its subsidiaries on the secondary market. GWG continued to
pay the premiums for each policy that it purchased and collected the policy benefits upon
the insured’s death. Following a series of transactions in 2018 and 2019 with Beneficient
Company Group, L.P., GWG reoriented its business, stopped acquiring life insurance
policies, and focused instead on developing a business model of providing liquidity to
holders of illiquid investments and alternative assets.
GWG had a history of net losses and had not generated sufficient operating and investing
cash flows to fund its operations. To finance its operations, GWG offered corporate
bonds (known as L Bonds) to investors with varying maturity periods and interest rates. L
Bonds were not directly secured by GWG’s life insurance portfolio and were not rated by
any bond rating agency.
GWG sold L Bonds to retail investors in four separate offerings and made those sales
through a network of broker-dealers, including IBN. The offering documents for the third
and fourth L Bond offerings, which commenced in December 2017 and June 2020,
respectively, stated the bonds could be considered speculative, involved a high degree of
risk, were illiquid, and were only suitable for persons with substantial financial resources
and with no need for liquidity.
In January 2022, after one of Piccone’s customers made investments in the L Bonds,
GWG defaulted on its obligations to L Bond investors and suspended further sales of L
Bonds. In April 2022, GWG filed for bankruptcy.
3. Piccone’s investment recommendations were not in the customer’s best interest
Between November 2020 and February 2021, Piccone recommended 11 sales of
speculative, illiquid alternative investments totaling $457,000 to a retail customer. These
recommendations included two sales of GWG L Bonds totaling $90,000 from the fourth
offering.2 The customer had a moderate risk tolerance, an annual income of no more than
$25,000, and a net worth, not including primary residence, of $587,438. The customer’s
investment objectives were preservation of capital, current income, and funding
retirement, and they did not include speculation. Piccone earned $23,905.81 in
commission in connection with his recommendations of these alternative investments to
the customer.
As a result of Piccone’s recommendations, the customer became 77% concentrated in
alternative investments, including a 15% concentration in L Bonds. Piccone’s
recommendations that the customer invest $457,000 in speculative alternative
investments, including L Bonds, were not in the customer’s best interest based on her
investment profile, including her moderate risk tolerance.
2

The customer brought and settled an arbitration claim against IBN relating to her GWG investments.

3

Therefore, Piccone willfully violated Exchange Act Rule 15l-1(a)(1) and violated FINRA
Rule 2010.
4. Piccone used an unapproved channel for business-related communications and
sent an unbalanced communication to the customer through that channel
FINRA Rule 4511 requires that each member “make and preserve books and records as
required under the FINRA rules, the Exchange Act and the applicable Exchange Act
rules.” Section 17(a) of the Exchange Act and Exchange Act Rule 17a-4(b)(4) require
member firms to maintain, for a period of at least three years, originals of all
communications received and copies of all communications sent relating to the member’s
business, including text messages. A registered representative who causes their member
firm to fail to comply with these recordkeeping obligations violates FINRA Rule 4511.
FINRA Rule 2210 addresses communications with the public by FINRA members and
their associated persons and includes content standards that apply to such
communications. FINRA Rule 2210(d)(1)(A) requires all member communications be
based on principles of fair dealing and good faith, be fair and balanced, and provide a
sound basis for evaluating the facts in regard to any particular security or type of security,
industry, or service. No member may omit any material fact or qualification if the
omission, in light of the context of the material presented, would cause the
communication to be misleading. FINRA Rule 2210(d)(1)(B) states that no member may
make any false, exaggerated, unwarranted, promissory, or misleading statement or claim
in any communication or publish, circulate, or distribute any communication that the
member knows or has reason to know contains any untrue statement of a material fact or
is otherwise false or misleading.
A violation of FINRA Rule 2210 or FINRA Rule 4511 also constitutes a violation of
FINRA Rule 2010.
IBN’s policies permitted registered representatives to use text messages only to confirm
appointments with clients. Between April 2021 and June 2022, however, Piccone
communicated with the customer identified above about securities business via text
message on his personal phone. Piccone did not provide those text messages to IBN for
review or retention. As a result, IBN did not preserve these text messages.
Piccone’s communications included an April 2022 message where Piccone told the
customer that GWG was in the process of being dissolved, and that “[w]hen the company
is sold we will get your money back.” Piccone’s statement was unbalanced and did not
provide a sound basis for evaluating GWG’s status because it made only positive claims
about the prospects of recovering the customer’s investment, and did not address the
potential for loss. Piccone’s statement was also promissory and misleading because it
guaranteed the customer would recover her money.

4

By using personal text messages to communicate with customers about firm business,
Piccone caused IBN to fail to comply with its recordkeeping obligations under the
Exchange Act, and, thereby, violated FINRA Rules 4511 and 2010. By sending an
unbalanced, promissory, and misleading communication to a customer, Piccone violated
FINRA Rules 2210(d)(1)(A), 2210(d)(1)(B), and 2010.
B.

Respondent also consents to the imposition of the following sanctions:


a five-month suspension from associating with any FINRA member in all
capacities;



a $10,000 fine; and



disgorgement of $23,905.81 plus interest as described below.

The fine shall be due and payable either immediately upon reassociation with a member
firm or prior to any application or request for relief from any statutory disqualification
resulting from this or any other event or proceeding, whichever is earlier.
Respondent specifically and voluntarily waives any right to claim an inability to pay, now
or at any time after the execution of this AWC, the monetary sanctions imposed in this
matter.
Disgorgement of commissions received is ordered to be paid to FINRA in the amount of
$23,905.81, plus interest at the rate set forth in Section 6621(a)(2) of the Internal
Revenue Code, 26 U.S.C. § 6621(a)(2), from February 10, 2021, until the date this AWC
is accepted by the National Adjudicatory Council (NAC). Disgorgement shall be due and
payable either immediately upon reassociation with a member firm or prior to any
application or request for relief from any statutory disqualification resulting from this or
any other event or proceeding, whichever is earlier.
Respondent understands that if he is barred or suspended from associating with any
FINRA member, he becomes subject to a statutory disqualification as that term is defined
in Article III, Section 4 of FINRA’s By-Laws, incorporating Section 3(a)(39) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Accordingly, he may not be associated with any
FINRA member in any capacity, including clerical or ministerial functions, during the
period of the bar or suspension. See FINRA Rules 8310 and 8311.
Respondent understands that this settlement includes a finding that he willfully violated
Rule 15l-1 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and that under Article III, Section 4 of
FINRA’s By-Laws, this makes him subject to a statutory disqualification with respect to
association with a member.
The sanctions imposed in this AWC shall be effective on a date set by FINRA.

5

II.
WAIVER OF PROCEDURAL RIGHTS
Respondent specifically and voluntarily waives the following rights granted under FINRA’s
Code of Procedure:
A.

To have a complaint issued specifying the allegations against him;

B.

To be notified of the complaint and have the opportunity to answer the allegations
in writing;

C.

To defend against the allegations in a disciplinary hearing before a hearing panel,
to have a written record of the hearing made, and to have a written decision
issued; and

D.

To appeal any such decision to the National Adjudicatory Council (NAC) and
then to the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission and a U.S. Court of
Appeals.

Further, Respondent specifically and voluntarily waives any right to claim bias or prejudgment
of the Chief Legal Officer, the NAC, or any member of the NAC, in connection with such
person’s or body’s participation in discussions regarding the terms and conditions of this AWC,
or other consideration of this AWC, including its acceptance or rejection.
Respondent further specifically and voluntarily waives any right to claim that a person violated
the ex parte prohibitions of FINRA Rule 9143 or the separation of functions prohibitions of
FINRA Rule 9144, in connection with such person’s or body’s participation in discussions
regarding the terms and conditions of this AWC, or other consideration of this AWC, including
its acceptance or rejection.
III.
OTHER MATTERS
Respondent understands that:
A.

Submission of this AWC is voluntary and will not resolve this matter unless and
until it has been reviewed and accepted by the NAC, a Review Subcommittee of
the NAC, or the Office of Disciplinary Affairs (ODA), pursuant to FINRA Rule
9216;

B.

If this AWC is not accepted, its submission will not be used as evidence to prove
any of the allegations against Respondent; and

C.

If accepted:
6

D.

1.

this AWC will become part of Respondent’s permanent disciplinary
record and may be considered in any future action brought by FINRA or
any other regulator against Respondent;

2.

this AWC will be made available through FINRA’s public disclosure
program in accordance with FINRA Rule 8313;

3.

FINRA may make a public announcement concerning this agreement and
its subject matter in accordance with FINRA Rule 8313; and

4.

Respondent may not take any action or make or permit to be made any
public statement, including in regulatory filings or otherwise, denying,
directly or indirectly, any finding in this AWC or create the impression
that the AWC is without factual basis. Respondent may not take any
position in any proceeding brought by or on behalf of FINRA, or to which
FINRA is a party, that is inconsistent with any part of this AWC. Nothing
in this provision affects Respondent’s right to take legal or factual
positions in litigation or other legal proceedings in which FINRA is not a
party. Nothing in this provision affects Respondent’s testimonial
obligations in any litigation or other legal proceedings.

Respondent may attach a corrective action statement to this AWC that is a
statement of demonstrable corrective steps taken to prevent future misconduct.
Respondent understands that he may not deny the charges or make any statement
that is inconsistent with the AWC in this statement. This statement does not
constitute factual or legal findings by FINRA, nor does it reflect the views of
FINRA.

7

Respondent certifies that he has read and understands all of the provisions of this AWC and has
been given a full opportunity to ask questions about it; Respondent has agreed to the AWC’s
provisions voluntarily; and no offer, threat, inducement, or promise of any kind, other than the
terms set forth in this AWC and the prospect of avoiding the issuance of a complaint, has been
made to induce him to submit this AWC.
December 19, 2024

Date

Angelo J. Piccone
Respondent

Reviewed by:
__________________________
Gregg Breitbart
Counsel for Respondent
Kaufman Dolowich LLP
100 SE Third Avenue
Suite 1500
Fort Lauderdale, FL 33394

Accepted by FINRA:
Signed on behalf of the
Director of ODA, by delegated authority
January 29, 2025

Date

Carly M. Kostakos
Senior Counsel
FINRA
Department of Enforcement
9509 Key West Avenue
Rockville, MD 20850

8

