FINANCIAL INDUSTRY REGULATORY AUTHORITY
LETTER OF ACCEPTANCE, WAIVER, AND CONSENT
NO. 2022076162101
TO:

Department of Enforcement
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA)

RE:

Laura Casey (Respondent)
Former General Securities Representative
CRD No. 2684465

Pursuant to FINRA Rule 9216, Respondent Laura Casey submits this Letter of Acceptance,
Waiver, and Consent (AWC) for the purpose of proposing a settlement of the alleged rule
violations described below. This AWC is submitted on the condition that, if accepted, FINRA
will not bring any future actions against Respondent alleging violations based on the same
factual findings described in this AWC.
I.
ACCEPTANCE AND CONSENT
A.

Respondent accepts and consents to the following findings by FINRA without admitting
or denying them:
BACKGROUND
Casey first registered with FINRA in 1996. Casey was registered with FINRA as a
General Securities Representative through an association with Morgan Stanley (CRD No.
149777) from July 2018 until September 1, 2022, when the firm filed a Uniform
Termination Notice for Securities Industry Registration (Form U5) disclosing that Casey
had resigned while under internal review.
From August 2022 until September 19, 2023, Casey was registered with FINRA as a
General Securities Representative through an association with another FINRA member
firm.
Casey is not currently registered or associated with any FINRA member firm. However,
she remains subject to FINRA' s jurisdiction pursuant to Article V, Section 4 of FINRA' s
By-Laws.1
OVERVIEW
Casey bought and sold products that included sales charges in the brokerage accounts of
four retail customers, who also held advisory accounts at her firm, without considering
the comparative costs of the transactions. She therefore willfully violated the Care

1

For more information about the respondent, visit BrokerCheck® at www.finra.org/brokercheck.

Obligation of Rule 15l-1 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (Regulation Best
Interest or Reg BI) and violated FINRA Rule 2010.
Casey also engaged in discretionary trading without written authorization in violation of
FINRA Rules 3260 and 2010.
FACTS AND VIOLATIVE CONDUCT
This matter originated from FINRA's review of the Form U5 filed by Morgan Stanley.
A. Casey willfully violated Reg Bi's Care Obligation
As of June 30, 2020, broker-dealers and their associated persons are required to comply
with Reg BI. Rule 15l-1(a)(1) of Reg BI requires a broker, dealer, or a natural person
associated with a broker or dealer, when making a recommendation of any securities
transaction or investment strategy involving securities (including account
recommendations) to a retail customer, to act in the best interest of that retail customer at
the time the recommendation is made, without placing the financial or other interest of
the broker, dealer, or associated person ahead of the interest of the retail customer.
Reg BI' s Care Obligation, set forth at Exchange Act Rule 15l-1(a)(2)(ii), requires brokerdealers and their associated persons to exercise reasonable diligence, care, and skill to,
among other things, have a reasonable basis to believe that the recommendation is in the
best interest of a particular retail customer based on that retail customer's investment
profile and the potential risks, rewards, and costs associated with the recommendation.
Reg BI defines a "retail customer investment profile" to include, but not be limited
to, the customer 's age, other investments, financial situation and needs, tax status,
investment objectives, investment experience, investment time horizon, liquidity needs,
risk tolerance, and any other information the customer may disclose to the member or
associated person in connection with such recommendation.

Violations of Reg BI also constitute violations of FINRA Rule 2010, which requires
associated persons " to observe high standards of commercial honor and just and equitable
principles of trade" in the conduct of their business.
Between March and July 2022, several of Casey 's customers who held advisory accounts
at Morgan Stanley also opened brokerage accounts. Casey exercised discretionary
authority in four retail customers' brokerage accounts to purchase and sell securities on a
short-term basis, without considering the comparative costs of such transactions.
Specifically, over a ten-day period in July 2022, Casey purchased products, including
exchange-traded funds (ETFs), which required the customers to pay upfront sales charges
that the customers would not have had to pay had the products been purchased in their
advisory accounts. Casey then sold the securities within days of purchase, resulting in
additional sales charges. In certain instances, Casey used the proceeds to make additional
purchases, which resulted in additional sales charges. Casey did not have a reasonable
basis to believe that placing these trades in the customers' brokerage accounts was in the
2

customers' best interests in light of their intended short holding periods and the
associated costs.
Collectively, Casey's trades subjected the four customers to $37,757.54 in unnecessary
sales charges. However, Morgan Stanley identified Casey's misconduct and reversed the
transactions. As a result, the customers did not pay any unnecessary sales charges and
Casey did not earn any commissions as a result of the trades at issue.

As a result of her misconduct, Casey willfully violated Exchange Act Rule 15l-1(a)(1)
and violated FINRA Rule 2010.
B. Casey Engaged in Discretionary Trading Without Written Authorization
FINRA Rule 3260(b) provides that "[n]o member or registered representative shall
exercise any discretionary power in a customer's account unless such customer has given
prior written authorization ... and the account has been accepted [as a discretionary
account] by the member, as evidenced in writing[.]" A violation of FINRA Rule 3260(b)
is also a violation of FINRA Rule 2010.

During the relevant period, Casey effected at least 46 trades in at least seven customers'
brokerage accounts without first speaking to the customers on the date of the transactions.
Casey also did not obtain prior written authorization from the customers to effect the
transactions. In addition, Morgan Stanley did not accept any of the accounts as
discretionary.
Therefore, Casey violated FINRA Rules 3260(b) and 2010.
B.

Respondent also consents to the imposition of the following sanctions:
■

a seven-month suspension from associating with any FINRA member in all
capacities and

■

a $7,500 fine.

The fine shall be due and payable either immediately upon reassociation with a member
firm or prior to any application or request for relief from any statutory disqualification
resulting from this or any other event or proceeding, whichever is earlier.
Respondent specifically and voluntarily waives any right to claim an inability to pay, now
or at any time after the execution of this AWC, the monetary sanction imposed in this
matter.
Respondent understands that if she is barred or suspended from associating with any
FINRA member, she becomes subject to a statutory disqualification as that term is
defined in Article III, Section 4 ofFINRA's By -Laws, incorporating Section 3(a)(39) of
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Accordingly, she may not be associated with any
3

FINRA member in any capacity, including clerical or ministerial functions, during the
period of the bar or suspension. See FINRA Rules 8310 and 8311.
Respondent understands that this settlement includes a finding that she willfully violated
Rule 15l-1 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and that under Article III, Section 4 of
FINRA'sBy-Laws, this makes her subject to a statutory disqualification with respect to
association with a member.
The sanctions imposed in this AWC shall be effective on a date set by FINRA.
II.
WAIVER OF PROCEDURAL RIGHTS
Respondent specifically and voluntarily waives the following rights granted under FINRA's
Code of Procedure:
A.

To have a complaint issued specifying the allegations against her;

B.

To be notified of the complaint and have the opportunity to answer the allegations
in writing;

C.

To defend against the allegations in a disciplinary hearing before a hearing panel,
to have a written record of the hearing made, and to have a written decision
issued; and

D.

To appeal any such decision to the National Adjudicatory Council (NAC) and
then to the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission and a U.S. Court of
Appeals.

Further, Respondent specifically and voluntarily waives any right to claim bias or prejudgment
of the Chief Legal Officer, the NAC, or any member of the NAC, in connection with such
person's or body's participation in discussions regarding the terms and conditions of this AWC,
or other consideration of this AWC, including its acceptance or rejection.
Respondent further specifically and voluntarily waives any right to claim that a person violated
the ex parte prohibitions of FINRA Rule 9143 or the separation of functions prohibitions of
FINRA Rule 9144, in connection with such person's or body's participation in discussions
regarding the terms and conditions of this AWC, or other consideration of this AWC, including
its acceptance or rejection.

4

III.
OTHER MATTERS
Respondent understands that:
A.

Submission of this AWC is voluntary and will not resolve this matter unless and
until it has been reviewed and accepted by the NAC, a Review Subcommittee of
the NAC, or the Office of Disciplinary Affairs (ODA), pursuant to FINRA Rule
9216;

B.

If this AWC is not accepted, its submission will not be used as evidence to prove
any of the allegations against Respondent; and

C.

If accepted:

D.

1.

this AWC will become part of Respondent 's permanent disciplinary
record and may be considered in any future action brought by FINRA or
any other regulator against Respondent;

2.

this AWC will be made available through FINRA's public disclosure
program in accordance with FINRA Rule 8313;

3.

FINRA may make a public announcement concerning this agreement and
its subject matter in accordance with FINRA Rule 8313; and

4.

Respondent may not take any action or make or permit to be made any
public statement, including in regulatory filings or otherwise, denying,
directly or indirectly, any finding in this AWC or create the impression
that the AWC is without factual basis. Respondent may not take any
position in any proceeding brought by or on behalf of FINRA, or to which
FINRA is a party, that is inconsistent with any part of this AWC. Nothing
in this provision affects Respondent's right to take legal or factual
positions in litigation or other legal proceedings in which FINRA is not a
party. Nothing in this provision affects Respondent's testimonial
obligations in any litigation or other legal proceedings.

Respondent may attach a corrective action statement to this AWC that is a
statement of demonstrable corrective steps taken to prevent future misconduct.
Respondent understands that she may not deny the charges or make any statement
that is inconsistent with the AWC in this statement. This statement does not
constitute factual or legal findings by FINRA, nor does it reflect the views of
FINRA.

Respondent certifies that she has read and understands all of the provisions of this AWC and has
been given a full opportunity to ask questions about it; Respondent understands and
acknowledges that FINRA does not represent or advise her and Respondent cannot rely on
5

FINRA for legal advice. Respondent has agreed to the AWC's provisions voluntarily; and no
offer, threat, inducement, or promise of any kind, other than the terms set forth in this AWC and
the prospect of avoiding the issuance of a complaint, has been made to induce her to submit this
AWC.
July 16, 2024

Date

Laura Casey
Respondent

Accepted by FINRA:
Signed on behalf of the
Director of ODA, by delegated authority
July 17, 2024

Date

Karen C. Daly
Principal Counsel
FINRA
Department of Enforcement
1601 Market Street, 27th Floor
Philadelphia, PA 19103

6

