FINANCIAL INDUSTRY REGULATORY AUTHORITY
LETTER OF ACCEPTANCE, WAIVER, AND CONSENT
NO. 2022076855801
TO:

Department of Enforcement
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA)

RE:

IBN Financial Services, Inc. (Respondent)
Member Firm
CRD No. 42360
Timothy E. Evans (Respondent)
General Securities Principal
CRD No. 6259284

Pursuant to FINRA Rule 9216, Respondents IBN Financial Services, Inc. (IBN) and Timothy E.
Evans submit this Letter of Acceptance, Waiver, and Consent (AWC) for the purpose of
proposing a settlement of the alleged rule violations described below. This AWC is submitted on
the condition that, if accepted, FINRA will not bring any future actions against Respondents
alleging violations based on the same factual findings described in this AWC.
I.
ACCEPTANCE AND CONSENT
A.

Respondents accept and consent to the following findings by FINRA without admitting
or denying them:
BACKGROUND
IBN has been a FINRA member firm since July 1997. IBN, which is headquartered in
Liverpool, New York, employs approximately 80 registered representatives and has
approximately 25 branch offices. IBN is an introducing broker-dealer that engages in a
general securities business, including the sale of equity securities, mutual funds, variable
annuities, and private placements. 1
Evans first registered with FINRA in December 2013 as a General Securities
Representative (GS) and an Operations Professional (OS) through his association with
IBN. Evans has also been registered with FINRA as a General Securities Principal (GP)
since February 2014 and as a Compliance Officer (CR) since October 2018 through his
association with IBN.2

1

For more information about IBN, including prior regulatory events, visit BrokerCheck® at
www finra.org/brokercheck.
2

For more information about Evans, visit BrokerCheck® at www.finra.org/brokercheck.

OVERVIEW
From January 2019 through February 2021, IBN and Evans failed to reasonably
supervise, and IBN failed to enforce written policies and procedures reasonably designed
to achieve compliance with Regulation Best Interest (Reg BI) with respect to, a registered
representative’s recommendations of alternative investments to two retail customers.
Accordingly, IBN and Evans violated FINRA Rules 3110 and 2010, and from June 30,
2020 through February 2021, IBN willfully violated Rule 15l-1(a)(1) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934 and violated FINRA Rule 2010 by failing to comply with the
Compliance Obligation of Reg BI.
FACTS AND VIOLATIVE CONDUCT
1. Legal framework
FINRA Rule 3110(a) requires a member firm to establish and maintain a system to
supervise the activities of each associated person that is reasonably designed to achieve
compliance with applicable securities laws and regulations, and with applicable FINRA
rules. FINRA Rule 3110(b) requires a member firm to establish, maintain, and enforce
written procedures to supervise the types of business in which it engages and the
activities of its associated persons that are reasonably designed to achieve compliance
with applicable securities laws and regulations, and with applicable FINRA rules. The
duty to supervise under FINRA Rule 3110 also includes the responsibility to reasonably
investigate red flags that suggest that misconduct may be occurring and to act upon the
results of such investigation.
As of June 30, 2020, broker-dealers and their associated persons are required to comply
with Regulation BI under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Rule 15l-1(a)(1) of Reg
BI requires a broker, dealer, or a natural person associated with a broker or dealer, when
making a recommendation of any securities transaction or investment strategy involving
securities (including account recommendations) to a retail customer, to act in the best
interest of that retail customer at the time the recommendation is made, without placing
the financial or other interest of the broker, dealer, or associated person ahead of the
interest of the retail customer. Reg BI’s Care Obligation, set forth at Rule 15l-1(a)(2)(ii),
requires broker-dealers and their associated persons to exercise reasonable diligence,
care, and skill to, among other things, have a reasonable basis to believe that the
recommendation is in the best interest of a particular retail customer based on that retail
customer’s investment profile and the potential risks, rewards, and costs associated with
the recommendation. Reg BI defines a “retail customer investment profile” to include,
but not be limited to, the customer’s age, other investments, financial situation and needs,
tax status, investment objectives, investment experience, investment time horizon,
liquidity needs, risk tolerance, and any other information the customer may disclose to
the member or associated person in connection with such recommendation.
Prior to June 30, 2020, FINRA Rule 2111 required members and associated persons to
have a reasonable basis to believe that a recommendation of a transaction or investment
strategy involving a security or securities to any customer is suitable for the customer,
2

based on the information obtained through the reasonable diligence of the member or
associated person to ascertain the customer’s investment profile. FINRA Rule 2111 is
still in effect, but as of June 30, 2020, it no longer applies to recommendations that are
subject to Reg BI. FINRA Rule 2111 defines a customer’s investment profile to include
the same information as under the Care Obligation.
A recommendation may not be suitable or in the best interest of a customer if it results in
a concentration in a particular security or category of securities that creates a risk of loss
inconsistent with the customer’s investment profile.
Additionally, Reg BI’s Compliance Obligation, set forth at Exchange Act Rule 15l1(a)(2)(iv), requires broker-dealers to establish, maintain, and enforce written policies
and procedures reasonably designed to achieve compliance with Reg BI, including the
Care Obligation. Reg BI’s Adopting Release provides that broker-dealers should consider
the nature of that firm’s operations and how to design such policies and procedures to
prevent violations from occurring, detect violations that have occurred, and to correctly
prompt any violations that have occurred. 3
Violations of Reg BI or FINRA Rule 3110 are also violations of FINRA Rule 2010,
which requires members and associated persons to “observe high standards of
commercial honor and just and equitable principles of trade” in the conduct of their
business.
2. GWG Holdings, Inc.
GWG is a publicly traded financial services company. Prior to 2018, GWG purchased life
insurance policies through its subsidiaries on the secondary market. GWG continued to
pay the premiums for each policy that it purchased and collected the policy benefits upon
the insured’s death. Following a series of transactions in 2018 and 2019 with Beneficient
Company Group, L.P., GWG reoriented its business, stopped acquiring life insurance
policies, and focused instead on developing a business model of providing liquidity to
holders of illiquid investments and alternative assets.
GWG had a history of net losses and had not generated sufficient operating and investing
cash flows to fund its operations. To finance its operations, GWG offered corporate
bonds (known as L Bonds) to investors with varying maturity periods and interest rates. L
Bonds were not directly secured by GWG’s life insurance portfolio and were not rated by
any bond rating agency.
GWG sold L Bonds to retail investors in four separate offerings and made those sales
through a network of broker-dealers, including IBN. The offering documents for the third
and fourth L Bond offerings, which commenced in December 2017 and June 2020,
respectively, stated the bonds could be considered speculative, involved a high degree of
3

Regulation Best Interest: The Broker-Dealer Standard of Conduct, Exchange Act Release No. 86031, 84 FR 33318
at 33397 (July 12, 2019).

3

risk, were illiquid, and were only suitable for persons with substantial financial resources
and with no need for liquidity.
In January 2022, after an IBN customer made investments in the L Bonds, GWG
defaulted on its obligations to L Bond investors and suspended further sales of L Bonds.
In April 2022, GWG filed for bankruptcy.
3. IBN and Evans failed to reasonably supervise, and IBN failed to enforce written
policies and procedures reasonably designed to achieve compliance with Reg BI
with respect to, a representative’s recommendations of alternative investments,
including GWG L Bonds.
IBN offered for sale several alternative investments, including GWG L Bonds and nontraded real estate investment trusts (REITs). IBN’s written supervisory procedures
(WSPs) stated that alternative investments involve unique and often complicated risk
profiles, and emphasized the importance of determining the suitability of these products.
The WSPs further specified that where any customer’s investment in an individual
alternative investment exceeded 7.5% of net worth, not including primary residence, and
the customer’s total alternative investment purchases exceeded 30% of that customer’s
net worth, not including primary residence, a transaction could only be permitted if,
among other things, good cause was shown for the purchase.
From January 2019 through February 2021, IBN and Evans failed to reasonably
supervise a registered representative’s recommendations of speculative alternative
investments to two retail customers where the sales were not suitable or in the best
interests of the customers given the customers’ investment profiles. Evans was the
representative’s direct business line supervisor and was responsible for reviewing for
supervisory approval applications to purchase alternative investments submitted by the
representative.
In January 2019, the representative recommended five illiquid, non-traded alternative
investments totaling $400,000 to the first customer. IBN and Evans approved the sales
notwithstanding the presence of red flags suggesting that the sales were unsuitable.
Specifically, IBN and Evans were aware from the application documents that the
customer was 71 years old, retired, had a moderate risk tolerance, and had a net worth,
not including primary residence, of $851,889. IBN and Evans nevertheless approved the
five sales, which resulted in the customer having a 47% concentration in speculative
alternative investments.
Between November 2020 and February 2021, the representative also recommended 11
sales of illiquid, non-traded alternative investments totaling $457,000 to a second
customer. This included $90,000 of GWG L Bonds. 4 Again, IBN and Evans approved the
sales notwithstanding the presence of red flags suggesting that the sales were not in the
customer’s best interest. Specifically, IBN and Evans were aware from the application
4

This customer brought and settled an arbitration claim against IBN relating to their GWG investment.

4

documents that the customer had an annual income of no more than $25,000, had a
moderate risk tolerance, and had a net worth, not including primary residence, of
$587,438. IBN and Evans nevertheless approved the 11 sales, which resulted in the
customer having a 77% concentration in speculative alternative investments, including
15% in L Bonds.
Despite red flags that the recommendations were unsuitable for, and not in the best
interest of, respectively, the two customers, IBN and Evans did not conduct any further
review or take any further steps before approving the transactions, such as evaluating
whether the representative had good cause for the recommendations given the
concentration levels at issue as required by the firm’s WSPs. Nor did IBN maintain other
written policies and procedures that were reasonably designed to achieve compliance
with Reg BI with respect to the registered representative’s recommendations.
Therefore, IBN and Evans violated FINRA Rules 3110 and 2010, and IBN willfully
violated Exchange Act Rule 15l-1(a)(1).
B.

Respondents also consent to the imposition of the following sanctions:
For IBN:


a censure;



a $50,000 fine; and



an undertaking that, within 90 days of the date of the Notice of Acceptance of this
AWC, a member of IBN’s senior management who is a registered principal of the
firm shall certify in writing that, as of the date of the certification, the firm has
remediated the issues identified in this AWC and implemented a supervisory
system, including WSPs, reasonably designed to achieve compliance with
Regulation Best Interest regarding the issues identified in this AWC. The
certification shall include a narrative description and supporting exhibits
sufficient to demonstrate IBN’s remediation and implementation. FINRA staff
may request further evidence of IBN’s remediation and implementation, and IBN
agrees to provide such evidence. IBN shall submit the certification to Carly M.
Kostakos, Senior Counsel, by email to carly.kostakos@finra.org, with a copy to
EnforcementNotice@finra.org. Upon written request showing good cause,
FINRA staff may extend this deadline.

For Evans:


a one-month suspension from associating with any FINRA member in all
principal capacities;



a $5,000 fine; and

5



a requirement that within 90 days of the Notice of Acceptance of this AWC,
Evans will attend and satisfactorily complete 20 hours of continuing education
concerning Regulation Best Interest. Evans will notify Carly M. Kostakos, Senior
Counsel, of the name and contact information of the provider who is providing the
continuing education at least 10 days prior to attending the training. Within 30
days following completion of the 20 hours of continuing education, Evans will
submit written proof that the continuing education program has been satisfactorily
completed to Carly M. Kostakos, Senior Counsel, by email to
carly.kostakos@finra.org. All correspondence must identify the respondent and
matter number 2022076855801. Upon written request showing good cause,
FINRA staff may extend any of the deadlines related to the continuing education
portion of the sanction.

Respondents agree to pay the monetary sanctions upon notice that this AWC has been
accepted and that such payment is due and payable. Respondents have submitted Election
of Payment forms showing the method by which they propose to pay the fines imposed.
Respondents specifically and voluntarily waive any right to claim an inability to pay, now
or at any time after the execution of this AWC, the monetary sanctions imposed in this
matter.
Respondent IBN understands that this settlement includes a finding that it willfully
violated Rule 15l-1(a)(1) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and that under Article
III, Section 4 of FINRA’s By-Laws, this makes Respondent IBN subject to a statutory
disqualification with respect to membership.
Respondent Evans understands that if he is barred or suspended from associating with
any FINRA member in a principal capacity, he becomes subject to a statutory
disqualification as that term is defined in Article III, Section 4 of FINRA’s By-Laws,
incorporating Section 3(a)(39) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Accordingly,
Respondent Evans may not be associated with any FINRA member in a principal
capacity during the period of the bar or suspension. See FINRA Rules 8310 and 8311.
Furthermore, because Respondent Evans is subject to a statutory disqualification during
the suspension, if he remains associated with a member firm in a non-suspended capacity,
an application to continue that association may be required.
The sanctions imposed in this AWC shall be effective on a date set by FINRA.
II.
WAIVER OF PROCEDURAL RIGHTS
Respondents specifically and voluntarily waive the following rights granted under FINRA’s
Code of Procedure:
A.

To have a complaint issued specifying the allegations against them;

6

B.

To be notified of the complaint and have the opportunity to answer the allegations
in writing;

C.

To defend against the allegations in a disciplinary hearing before a hearing panel,
to have a written record of the hearing made, and to have a written decision
issued; and

D.

To appeal any such decision to the National Adjudicatory Council (NAC) and
then to the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission and a U.S. Court of
Appeals.

Further, Respondents specifically and voluntarily waive any right to claim bias or prejudgment
of the Chief Legal Officer, the NAC, or any member of the NAC, in connection with such
person’s or body’s participation in discussions regarding the terms and conditions of this AWC,
or other consideration of this AWC, including its acceptance or rejection.
Respondents further specifically and voluntarily waive any right to claim that a person violated
the ex parte prohibitions of FINRA Rule 9143 or the separation of functions prohibitions of
FINRA Rule 9144, in connection with such person’s or body’s participation in discussions
regarding the terms and conditions of this AWC, or other consideration of this AWC, including
its acceptance or rejection.
III.
OTHER MATTERS
Respondents understand that:
A.

Submission of this AWC is voluntary and will not resolve this matter unless and
until it has been reviewed and accepted by the NAC, a Review Subcommittee of
the NAC, or the Office of Disciplinary Affairs (ODA), pursuant to FINRA Rule
9216;

B.

If this AWC is not accepted, its submission will not be used as evidence to prove
any of the allegations against Respondents; and

C.

If accepted:
1.

this AWC will become part of Respondents’ permanent disciplinary
record and may be considered in any future action brought by FINRA or
any other regulator against Respondents;

2.

this AWC will be made available through FINRA’s public disclosure
program in accordance with FINRA Rule 8313;

3.

FINRA may make a public announcement concerning this agreement and
its subject matter in accordance with FINRA Rule 8313; and
7

4.

D.

Respondents may not take any action or make or permit to be made any
public statement, including in regulatory filings or otherwise, denying,
directly or indirectly, any finding in this AWC or create the impression
that the AWC is without factual basis. Respondents may not take any
position in any proceeding brought by or on behalf of FINRA, or to which
FINRA is a party, that is inconsistent with any part of this AWC. Nothing
in this provision affects Respondents’ right to take legal or factual
positions in litigation or other legal proceedings in which FINRA is not a
party. Nothing in this provision affects Respondents’ testimonial
obligations in any litigation or other legal proceedings.

Respondents may attach a corrective action statement to this AWC that is a
statement of demonstrable corrective steps taken to prevent future misconduct.
Respondents understand that they may not deny the charges or make any
statement that is inconsistent with the AWC in this statement. This statement does
not constitute factual or legal findings by FINRA, nor does it reflect the views of
FINRA.

The undersigned, on behalf of Respondent IBN Financial Services, Inc., certifies that a person
duly authorized to act on IBN’s behalf has read and understands all of the provisions of this
AWC and has been given a full opportunity to ask questions about it; that IBN has agreed to the
AWC’s provisions voluntarily; and that no offer, threat, inducement, or promise of any kind,
other than the terms set forth in this AWC and the prospect of avoiding the issuance of a
complaint, has been made to induce IBN to submit this AWC.
January 13, 2025

Date

____________________________________
IBN Financial Services, Inc.
Respondent
Print Name: Richard J. Carlesco, Jr.
Title: Chief Executive Officer

Respondent Timothy E. Evans certifies that he has read and understands all of the provisions of
this AWC and has been given a full opportunity to ask questions about it; Evans has agreed to
the AWC’s provisions voluntarily; and no offer, threat, inducement, or promise of any kind,
other than the terms set forth in this AWC and the prospect of avoiding the issuance of a
complaint, has been made to induce him to submit this AWC.

8

January 13, 2025

Date

Timothy E. Evans
Respondent

Reviewed by:
_______________________
Gregg Breitbart
Counsel for Respondents
Kaufman Dolowich LLP
100 SE Third Avenue
Suite 1500
Fort Lauderdale, FL 33394
Accepted by FINRA:
Signed on behalf of the
Director of ODA, by delegated authority
January 29, 2025

Date

Carly M. Kostakos
Senior Counsel
FINRA
Department of Enforcement
9509 Key West Avenue
Rockville, MD 20850

9

