FINANCIAL INDUSTRY REGULATORY AUTHORITY
LETTER OF ACCEPTANCE, WAIVER, AND CONSENT
NO. 2022073340901
TO:

Department of Enforcement
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA)

RE:

Justin W. Pagel (Respondent)
Former General Securities Representative
CRD No. 2554168

Pursuant to FINRA Rule 9216, Respondent Justin W. Pagel submits this Letter of Acceptance,
Waiver, and Consent (AWC) for the purpose of proposing a settlement of the alleged rule
violations described below. This AWC is submitted on the condition that, if accepted, FINRA
will not bring any future actions against Respondent alleging violations based on the same
factual findings described in this AWC.
I.
ACCEPTANCE AND CONSENT
A.

Respondent accepts and consents to the following findings by FINRA without admitting
or denying them:
BACKGROUND
Pagel entered the securities industry in 1994. After associations with four member firms,
he was registered with FINRA through Feltl & Company as a General Securities
Representative from August 2011 to May 2024. According to the Uniform Termination
Notice of Securities Industry Registration (Form U5) filed by Feltl & Company, the firm
discharged Pagel on May 2, 2024 for failing to follow firm policies. While Pagel is not
currently associated with a member firm, he remains subject to FINRA’s jurisdiction
under Article V, Section 4(a)(i) of FINRA’s By-Laws. 1
OVERVIEW
Between January 2014 and August 2023, while associated with Feltl & Company, Pagel
recommended that four customers invest all or a significant portion of their assets at the
firm in speculative, high-risk stocks, or engage in short-term trading, that was not in the
customers’ best interest or was unsuitable. By this conduct, Pagel willfully violated Rule
15l-1(a)(1) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (Regulation BI) (for activity on or
after June 30, 2020) and violated FINRA Rule 2111 (for activity prior to June 30, 2020)
and FINRA Rule 2010.
In addition, from July 2019 through December 2023, Pagel exercised discretion when
effecting 360 trades in 47 customer accounts without obtaining written authorization

1

For more information about the respondent, visit BrokerCheck® at www.finra.org/brokercheck.

from the customers and from his member firm to treat the accounts as discretionary, in
violation of FINRA Rules 3260(b) and 2010. Further, from April 2013 to January 2022,
Pagel mismarked 587 solicited trades as unsolicited in over 50 customer accounts,
including the 47 customer accounts in which he exercised discretion without
authorization, in violation of FINRA Rules 4511 and 2010.
FACTS AND VIOLATIVE CONDUCT
This matter originated from FINRA’s cycle exam of Feltl & Company.
Pagel made recommendations that were not in his customers’ best interest or were
unsuitable.
As of June 30, 2020, broker-dealers and their associated persons are required to comply
with Regulation BI under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Rule 15l-1(a)(1) of
Regulation BI requires a broker, dealer, or a natural person associated with a broker or
dealer, when making a recommendation of any securities transaction or investment
strategy involving securities (including account recommendations) to a retail customer, to
act in the best interest of that retail customer at the time the recommendation is made,
without placing the financial or other interest of the broker, dealer, or associated person
ahead of the interest of the retail customer. Regulation BI’s Care Obligation, set forth at
Exchange Act Rule 15l-1(a)(2)(ii), requires broker-dealers and their associated persons to
exercise reasonable diligence, care, and skill to, among other things, have a reasonable
basis to believe that the recommendation is in the best interest of a particular retail
customer based on that retail customer’s investment profile and the potential risks,
rewards, and costs associated with the recommendation. Regulation BI defines a “retail
customer investment profile” to include, but not be limited to, the customer’s age, other
investments, financial situation and needs, tax status, investment objectives, investment
experience, investment time horizon, liquidity needs, risk tolerance, and any other
information the customer may disclose to the member or associated person in connection
with such recommendation.
Prior to June 30, 2020, FINRA Rule 2111 required members and associated persons to
have a reasonable basis to believe that a recommended transaction or investment strategy
involving a security or securities is suitable for the customer, based on the information
obtained through the reasonable diligence of the member or associated person to ascertain
the customer's investment profile. FINRA Rule 2111 is still in effect, but as of June 30,
2020, it no longer applies to recommendations that are subject to Regulation BI. FINRA
Rule 2111 defines a customer’s investment profile to include the same information as
under the Care Obligation.
A violation of Regulation BI and FINRA Rule 2111 are also a violation of FINRA Rule
2010, which requires associated persons to “observe high standards of commercial honor
and just and equitable principles of trade” in the conduct of their business.
In 2014, Customers A and B opened accounts with Pagel at Feltl & Company. In 2016,
Customer C opened an account with Pagel at Feltl & Company. Each of these customers

2

was a single parent with dependent children facing financial hardship. The funds each
customer invested were obtained through inheritances or charitable gifts to their family.
The customers had no prior investment experience and little to no other assets. When
opening their accounts with Pagel, each customer instructed Pagel to invest the money
conservatively and informed him that they planned to use the money for anticipated
upcoming expenses, such as a home down payment or a child’s college tuition. Pagel
nevertheless instructed each of them to select an investment objective of speculation and
a high or maximum risk tolerance for their account in account opening documents so that
he could invest their accounts in speculative securities.
At Pagel’s recommendation, Customers A, B, and C invested all, or a significant portion
of, their assets at the firm in low-priced stocks or other speculative securities. The trading
activity in Customer A’s account occurred between January 2014 and December 2015.
For Customer B’s account, the activity occurred between March 2014 and September
2014. For Customer C’s account, the activity occurred between August 2016 and
February 2019. The trading activity in these three accounts was inconsistent with the
customers’ investment profiles and resulted in losses and customer complaints from all
three customers. In connection with two of the complaints, Pagel and the firm made
payments totaling $26,000.
Additionally, in November 2022, another customer, Customer D, opened two accounts
with Pagel at Feltl & Company, one of which was an individual retirement account. On
his new account forms, Customer D, who was self-employed, identified an annual
income of less than $50,000, which was the lowest option on the form, and a net worth of
less than $100,000, which was also the lowest option on the form. For both accounts,
Customer D selected an investment objective of balanced growth with moderate risk
tolerance, defined on the forms as a willingness to accept modest returns for some
fluctuation in value. Customer D had no prior investment experience and no other assets
held outside of the firm. He informed Pagel that he wanted to make only safe
investments. However, between November 2022 and August 2023, Pagel recommended
that Customer D purchase positions in low-priced stocks and other speculative securities
inconsistent with Customer D’s investment profile.
By making recommendations to Customers A, B, and C that that were not suitable, Pagel
violated FINRA Rules 2111 and 2010. In addition, by making recommendations to
Customer D that were not in his best interest, Pagel willfully violated Exchange Act Rule
15l-1(a)(1) as well as FINRA Rule 2010.
Pagel exercised discretion without written authorization.
FINRA Rule 3260(b) prohibits a registered representative from exercising discretionary
power in a customer’s account without prior written authorization from the customer and
written acceptance from the member firm. A violation of FINRA Rule 3260 is also a
violation of FINRA Rule 2010.

3

Pagel did not have written authority from his customers or written acceptance from Feltl
& Company to exercise discretion in any customer accounts. Nonetheless, from July
2019 through December 2023, Pagel exercised discretion in connection with 360 trades
in 47 customer accounts. As a result, Pagel violated FINRA Rules 3260(b) and 2010.
Pagel mismarked solicited trades as unsolicited.
FINRA Rule 4511 requires that members “make and preserve books and records as
required under the FINRA rules, the Exchange Act and the applicable Exchange Act
rules.” Exchange Act Rule 17a-3(a)(6) requires a record of “each brokerage order, and of
any other instruction, given or received for the purchase or sale of a security … whether
executed or unexecuted.” This record “shall show the terms and conditions of the order or
instructions.” Inherent in the obligation to make and preserve books and books is the
requirement that they be accurate. An associated person who mismarks a solicited order
as unsolicited causes his member firm to create an inaccurate record in violation of
FINRA Rule 4511. A violation of FINRA Rule 4511 is also a violation of FINRA Rule
2010.
Between April 2013 and January 2022, Pagel mismarked 587 solicited trades as
unsolicited in over 50 customer accounts, including the 47 accounts in which he
exercised discretion without authorization. As a result, he violated FINRA Rules 4511
and 2010.
B.

Respondent also consents to the imposition of the following sanctions:


a ten-month suspension from associating with any FINRA member in all
capacities.

Respondent has submitted a statement of financial condition and demonstrated an
inability to pay. In light of Respondent’s financial status, no monetary sanctions have
been imposed.
Respondent understands that if he is barred or suspended from associating with any
FINRA member, he becomes subject to a statutory disqualification as that term is defined
in Article III, Section 4 of FINRA’s By-Laws, incorporating Section 3(a)(39) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Accordingly, he may not be associated with any
FINRA member in any capacity, including clerical or ministerial functions, during the
period of the bar or suspension. See FINRA Rules 8310 and 8311.
Respondent understands that this settlement includes a finding that he willfully violated
Rule 15l-1(a)(1) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and that under Article III,
Section 4 of FINRA’s By-Laws, this makes him subject to a statutory disqualification
with respect to association with a member.
The sanctions imposed in this AWC shall be effective on a date set by FINRA.

4

II.
WAIVER OF PROCEDURAL RIGHTS
Respondent specifically and voluntarily waives the following rights granted under FINRA’s
Code of Procedure:
A.

To have a complaint issued specifying the allegations against him;

B.

To be notified of the complaint and have the opportunity to answer the allegations
in writing;

C.

To defend against the allegations in a disciplinary hearing before a hearing panel,
to have a written record of the hearing made, and to have a written decision
issued; and

D.

To appeal any such decision to the National Adjudicatory Council (NAC) and
then to the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission and a U.S. Court of
Appeals.

Further, Respondent specifically and voluntarily waives any right to claim bias or prejudgment
of the Chief Legal Officer, the NAC, or any member of the NAC, in connection with such
person’s or body’s participation in discussions regarding the terms and conditions of this AWC,
or other consideration of this AWC, including its acceptance or rejection.
Respondent further specifically and voluntarily waives any right to claim that a person violated
the ex parte prohibitions of FINRA Rule 9143 or the separation of functions prohibitions of
FINRA Rule 9144, in connection with such person’s or body’s participation in discussions
regarding the terms and conditions of this AWC, or other consideration of this AWC, including
its acceptance or rejection.
III.
OTHER MATTERS
Respondent understands that:
A.

Submission of this AWC is voluntary and will not resolve this matter unless and
until it has been reviewed and accepted by the NAC, a Review Subcommittee of
the NAC, or the Office of Disciplinary Affairs (ODA), pursuant to FINRA Rule
9216;

B.

If this AWC is not accepted, its submission will not be used as evidence to prove
any of the allegations against Respondent; and

5

C.

D.

If accepted:
1.

this AWC will become part of Respondent’s permanent disciplinary
record and may be considered in any future action brought by FINRA or
any other regulator against Respondent;

2.

this AWC will be made available through FINRA’s public disclosure
program in accordance with FINRA Rule 8313;

3.

FINRA may make a public announcement concerning this agreement and
its subject matter in accordance with FINRA Rule 8313; and

4.

Respondent may not take any action or make or permit to be made any
public statement, including in regulatory filings or otherwise, denying,
directly or indirectly, any finding in this AWC or create the impression
that the AWC is without factual basis. Respondent may not take any
position in any proceeding brought by or on behalf of FINRA, or to which
FINRA is a party, that is inconsistent with any part of this AWC. Nothing
in this provision affects Respondent’s right to take legal or factual
positions in litigation or other legal proceedings in which FINRA is not a
party. Nothing in this provision affects Respondent’s testimonial
obligations in any litigation or other legal proceedings.

Respondent may attach a corrective action statement to this AWC that is a
statement of demonstrable corrective steps taken to prevent future misconduct.
Respondent understands that he may not deny the charges or make any statement
that is inconsistent with the AWC in this statement. This statement does not
constitute factual or legal findings by FINRA, nor does it reflect the views of
FINRA.

6

Respondent certifies that he has read and understands alt of the provisions of thisAWC and has
been given a full opportunity to ask questions about it; Respondent has agreed to the AWC's
provisions voluntarily; and no offer, threat, inducement, or promise of any kind, other than the
terms set forth .in this A WC and the prospect of avoiding the issuance of a complaint, has been
made to induce him to submit this AWC.

Date

R
s~

l~~~ olC

Donald R. McNeil, Esq. ( zo<:P<--1
Counsel for Respondent
Heley; Duncan & Melander PLLP
8500 Normandale Lake Blvd.
Minneapolis, MN 55437

o)

Accepted by FINRA:
Signed on behalf of the
Director of ODA, by delegated authority

01/17/2025
Date

Jeffrey E. Baldwin
Senior Counsel
FINRA
Departme nfof Enforcement ·
160 l Market Street
Suite 2700
Philadelphia, PA 19103

7

