FINANCIAL INDUSTRY REGULATORY AUTHORITY
LETTER OF ACCEPTANCE, WAIVER, AND CONSENT
NO. 2022073329701
TO:

Department of Enforcement
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA)

RE:

JVM Securities, LLC (Respondent)
Member Firm
CRD No. 290327
Pursuant to FINRA Rule 9216, Respondent JVM Securities, LLC submits this Letter of
Acceptance, Waiver, and Consent (AWC) for the purpose of proposing a settlement of
the alleged rule violations described below. This AWC is submitted on the condition that,
if accepted, FINRA will not bring any future actions against Respondent alleging
violations based on the same factual findings described in this AWC.
I.
ACCEPTANCE AND CONSENT

A.

Respondent accepts and consents to the following findings by FINRA without admitting
or denying them:
BACKGROUND
JVM Securities has been a FINRA member firm since 2018. The firm, which is located in
Oak Brook, Illinois, has five registered representatives. JVM Securities markets private
placement offerings that are issued by its affiliate.1
OVERVIEW
Since June 30, 2020, JVM Securities has failed to establish and maintain written policies
and procedures, and a supervisory system, reasonably designed to achieve compliance
with Securities Exchange Act of 1934 Rule 15l-1 (Regulation Best Interest or Reg BI).
As a result, the firm has willfully violated Exchange Act Rule 15l-1(a)(1) and has
violated FINRA Rules 3110 and 2010.
Between June 30, 2020, and July 18, 2023, JVM Securities also failed to establish and
maintain a supervisory system, including written supervisory procedures (WSPs),
reasonably designed to achieve compliance with its Exchange Act Rule 17a-14
obligations to prepare, file, and deliver its customer relationship summary (Form CRS).
JVM Securities therefore violated FINRA Rules 3110 and 2010.

1

For more information about the firm, visit BrokerCheck® at www.finra.org/brokercheck.

Finally, JVM Securities failed to comply with its regulatory obligations, including its
supervisory obligations, relating to private placement offerings. The firm failed, from
April 2020 to March 2022, to timely file required documents with FINRA for three
private placement offerings that the firm sold to retail investors, in violation of FINRA
Rules 5123 and 2010. Additionally, from October 27, 2018, to February 28, 2022, JVM
Securities failed to establish and maintain a supervisory system, including WSPs,
reasonably designed to achieve compliance with FINRA Rule 5123. During this period,
the firm’s WSPs designated an individual who was no longer associated with the firm as
the principal responsible for filing with FINRA required documents related to private
placement offerings. Accordingly, the firm violated FINRA Rules 3110 and 2010.
FACTS AND VIOLATIVE CONDUCT
This matter originated from a firm examination of JVM Securities.
A.

JVM Securities has failed to establish and maintain written policies and
procedures, and a supervisory system, reasonably designed to comply with
Regulation Best Interest.

As of June 30, 2020, broker-dealers and their associated persons are required to comply
with Regulation BI under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Rule 15l-1(a)(1) of Reg
BI requires a broker, dealer, or a natural person associated with a broker or dealer, when
making a recommendation of any securities transaction or investment strategy involving
securities (including account recommendations) to a retail customer, to act in the best
interest of that retail customer at the time the recommendation is made, without placing
the financial or other interest of the broker, dealer, or associated person ahead of the
interest of the retail customer. Reg BI’s Compliance Obligation, set forth at Exchange
Act Rule 15l-1(a)(2)(iv), requires a broker-dealer to establish, maintain, and enforce
written policies and procedures reasonably designed to achieve compliance with Reg BI.
Reg BI’s Adopting Release provides that broker-dealers should consider the nature of
that firm’s operations and how to design such policies and procedures to prevent
violations from occurring, detect violations that have occurred, and to correct promptly
any violations that have occurred.2
Additionally, Reg BI’s Conflict of Interest Obligation, set forth at Exchange Act Rule
15l-1(a)(2)(iii), requires broker-dealers to establish, maintain, and enforce written
policies and procedures addressing conflicts of interest, defined as interests that might
incline a broker-dealer or an associated person—consciously or unconsciously—to make
a recommendation that is not disinterested. Such procedures must be, among other things,
reasonably designed to identify and mitigate any conflicts of interest associated with
recommendations to retail customers that create an incentive for an associated person to
place the firm’s interest, or the associated person’s interest, ahead of the customer’s
interest. This obligation applies to incentives that are provided to the associated person,
2

See Regulation Best Interest: The Broker-Dealer Standard of Conduct, Exchange Act Release No. 86031, 84 FR
33318 at 33397 (July 12, 2019).

2

whether by the firm or third parties, that are within the control of or associated with the
broker-dealer’s business.
FINRA Rule 3110 requires member firms to establish, maintain, and enforce a
supervisory system, including written procedures, to supervise the activities of each
associated person that is reasonably designed to achieve compliance with applicable
securities laws, regulations, and FINRA rules.
Violations of Reg BI or FINRA Rule 3110 are also violations of FINRA Rule 2010,
which requires member firms to observe high standards of commercial honor and just
and equitable principles of trade in the conduct of their business.
Since June 30, 2020, JVM Securities has acted as placement agent for private placement
offerings that it has recommended to retail customers. Nonetheless, the firm has failed to
establish and maintain written policies and procedures reasonably designed to achieve
compliance with Reg BI. The firm’s written policies and procedures contained no
provisions relating to Reg BI until March 1, 2022. After March 1, 2022, the firm’s
various updated versions of its policies and procedures have discussed Reg BI only in
general terms, have not been tailored to the firm’s business, and have not prescribed
procedures for complying with Reg BI. For example, one version of the policies and
procedures discussed customer account monitoring services, even though the firm did not
maintain customer accounts. And the firm’s current policies and procedures do not
specify the steps that registered representatives must take to comply with Reg BI. Nor are
the firm’s current policies and procedures reasonably designed to achieve compliance
with Reg BI’s Conflict of Interest Obligation. Although the firm has recommended
offerings of securities issued by its affiliates, its policies and procedures do not address
potential conflicts of interest relating to those recommendations. As a result, the firm has
failed to comply with the Compliance Obligation and the Conflict of Interest Obligation.
Since June 30, 2020, JVM Securities also has failed to establish, maintain, and enforce a
supervisory system, including WSPs, reasonably designed to achieve compliance with
Reg BI. For example, one version of the WSPs delegated responsibility to a “Reg BI
principal,” but did not identify the principal. And the firm’s current WSPs fail to detail
the supervisory steps and reviews that should be undertaken by the principal responsible
for supervising compliance with Reg BI—including the frequency of those reviews or
how the reviews should be documented.
Therefore, JVM Securities has willfully violated Exchange Act Rule 15l-1(a)(1) and has
violated FINRA Rules 3110 and 2010.
B.

JVM Securities failed to have a supervisory system, including WSPs,
reasonably designed to achieve compliance with its Form CRS obligations.

On June 5, 2019, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) adopted Form CRS
and rules creating new requirements—which include requirements to prepare, file, and

3

deliver the Form CRS—for SEC-registered broker-dealers offering services to a retail
investor. The compliance date for Form CRS was June 30, 2020.
Form CRS provides customers with information about the types of services the firm
offers; the fees, costs, conflicts of interest, and required standard of conduct associated
with those services; whether the firm and its investment professionals have reportable
legal or disciplinary history; and how to get more information about the firm.
Form CRS also includes required “conversation starters” to help begin a discussion with
a broker-dealer about the relationship, including their services, fees, costs, conflicts, and
disciplinary information.
Section 17(a)(1) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 requires registered brokerdealers to make and keep for prescribed periods such records, furnish such copies thereof,
and make and disseminate such reports as the Commission deems “necessary or
appropriate in the public interest, for the protection of investors or otherwise in
furtherance of the purposes of” the Exchange Act. Exchange Act Rule 17a-14—titled
“Form CRS, for preparation, filing and delivery of Form CRS”—requires broker-dealers
offering services to a retail investor to prepare a Form CRS in accordance with the
instructions in Form CRS, and to comply with requirements related to filing, amending,
delivering, and posting the Form CRS to the firm’s public website.
From June 30, 2020, to July 18, 2023, JVM Securities failed to establish and maintain a
supervisory system, including WSPs, reasonably designed to achieve compliance with its
Form CRS obligations. Until March 1, 2022, JVM Securities’ WSPs contained no
reference to Form CRS. And until the firm adopted revised WSPs on July 19, 2023, the
WSPs were not tailored to the firm’s business and did not prescribe procedures for
complying with the firm’s Form CRS obligations.
Accordingly, JVM Securities violated FINRA Rules 3110 and 2010.
C.

JVM Securities failed to timely file required documents related to three
private placements, and the firm failed to have a supervisory system,
including WSPs, reasonably designed to comply with FINRA’s filing
requirements.

FINRA Rule 5123 requires a member firm that sells a security in a non-public offering in
reliance on an available exemption from registration under the Securities Act of 1933 to:
(1) submit to FINRA, or have submitted on its behalf, a copy of any private placement
memorandum, term sheet, or other offering document used in connection with such sale
within 15 calendar days of the date of first sale; or (2) notify FINRA that no such offering
documents were used. As noted in Regulatory Notice 12-40, FINRA Rule 5123 was
implemented to enhance oversight and investor protection and to provide more timely
and complete information about the private placement activities of firms on behalf of
other issuers. A violation of FINRA Rule 5123 is also a violation of FINRA Rule 2010.

4

Between April 2020 and March 2022, JVM Securities failed to timely make filings with
FINRA for three private offerings that it sold to retail investors. JVM Securities made the
required filings almost two years late—and only after FINRA specifically requested that
it do so. This prevented FINRA from timely reviewing the three offerings. As a result, the
firm violated FINRA Rules 5123 and 2010.
Additionally, between October 27, 2018, and February 28, 2022, JVM Securities’
supervisory system, including WSPs, was not reasonably designed to achieve compliance
with FINRA Rule 5123. During this period, no principal of the firm supervised the filing
with FINRA of required documents related to private placement offerings; rather, the
firm’s WSPs designated an individual who was no longer associated with the firm as the
principal with this responsibility.3 As a result, the firm violated FINRA Rules 3110 and
2010.
B.

Respondent also consents to the imposition of the following sanctions:


a censure;



a $60,000 fine; and



an undertaking that, within 60 days of the date of the notice of acceptance of this
AWC, a member of Respondent’s senior management who is a registered
principal of the firm shall certify in writing that, as of the date of the certification,
the firm has remediated the issues identified in this AWC and implemented
written policies and procedures, and a supervisory system, including WSPs,
reasonably designed to achieve compliance with Regulation Best Interest
regarding the issues identified in this AWC. The certification shall include a
narrative description and supporting exhibits sufficient to demonstrate
Respondent’s remediation and implementation. FINRA staff may request further
evidence of Respondent’s remediation and implementation, and Respondent
agrees to provide such evidence. Respondent shall submit the certification to
Rebecca Segrest, Senior Counsel, FINRA, 9509 Key West Avenue, Rockville,
MD 20850-3329, with a copy to rebecca.segrest@finra.org and
EnforcementNotice@finra.org. Upon written request showing good cause,
FINRA staff may extend this deadline.

Respondent agrees to pay the monetary sanction upon notice that this AWC has been
accepted and that such payment is due and payable. Respondent has submitted an
Election of Payment form showing the method by which it proposes to pay the fine
imposed.
Respondent specifically and voluntarily waives any right to claim an inability to pay, now
or at any time after the execution of this AWC, the monetary sanction imposed in this
matter.

3

JVM Securities updated its WSPs to correct this issue effective March 1, 2022.

5

Respondent understands that this settlement includes a finding that it willfully violated
Exchange Act Rule 15l-1 and that under Article III, Section 4 of FINRA’s By-Laws, this
makes Respondent subject to a statutory disqualification with respect to membership.
The sanctions imposed in this AWC shall be effective on a date set by FINRA.
II.
WAIVER OF PROCEDURAL RIGHTS
Respondent specifically and voluntarily waives the following rights granted under FINRA’s
Code of Procedure:
A.

To have a complaint issued specifying the allegations against it;

B.

To be notified of the complaint and have the opportunity to answer the allegations
in writing;

C.

To defend against the allegations in a disciplinary hearing before a hearing panel,
to have a written record of the hearing made, and to have a written decision
issued; and

D.

To appeal any such decision to the National Adjudicatory Council (NAC) and
then to the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission and a U.S. Court of
Appeals.

Further, Respondent specifically and voluntarily waives any right to claim bias or prejudgment
of the Chief Legal Officer, the NAC, or any member of the NAC, in connection with such
person’s or body’s participation in discussions regarding the terms and conditions of this AWC,
or other consideration of this AWC, including its acceptance or rejection.
Respondent further specifically and voluntarily waives any right to claim that a person violated
the ex parte prohibitions of FINRA Rule 9143 or the separation of functions prohibitions of
FINRA Rule 9144, in connection with such person’s or body’s participation in discussions
regarding the terms and conditions of this AWC, or other consideration of this AWC, including
its acceptance or rejection.
III.
OTHER MATTERS
Respondent understands that:
A.

Submission of this AWC is voluntary and will not resolve this matter unless and
until it has been reviewed and accepted by the NAC, a Review Subcommittee of
the NAC, or the Office of Disciplinary Affairs (ODA), pursuant to FINRA Rule
9216;
6

B.

If this AWC is not accepted, its submission will not be used as evidence to prove
any of the allegations against Respondent; and

C.

If accepted:

D.

1.

this AWC will become part of Respondent’s permanent disciplinary
record and may be considered in any future action brought by FINRA or
any other regulator against Respondent;

2.

this AWC will be made available through FINRA’s public disclosure
program in accordance with FINRA Rule 8313;

3.

FINRA may make a public announcement concerning this agreement and
its subject matter in accordance with FINRA Rule 8313; and

4.

Respondent may not take any action or make or permit to be made any
public statement, including in regulatory filings or otherwise, denying,
directly or indirectly, any finding in this AWC or create the impression
that the AWC is without factual basis. Respondent may not take any
position in any proceeding brought by or on behalf of FINRA, or to which
FINRA is a party, that is inconsistent with any part of this AWC. Nothing
in this provision affects Respondent’s right to take legal or factual
positions in litigation or other legal proceedings in which FINRA is not a
party. Nothing in this provision affects Respondent’s testimonial
obligations in any litigation or other legal proceedings.

Respondent may attach a corrective action statement to this AWC that is a
statement of demonstrable corrective steps taken to prevent future misconduct.
Respondent understands that it may not deny the charges or make any statement
that is inconsistent with the AWC in this statement. This statement does not
constitute factual or legal findings by FINRA, nor does it reflect the views of
FINRA.

7

The undersigned, on behalf of Respondent, certifies that a person duly authorized to act on
Respondent’s behalf has read and understands all of the provisions of this AWC and has been
given a full opportunity to ask questions about it; that Respondent has agreed to the AWC’s
provisions voluntarily; and that no offer, threat, inducement, or promise of any kind, other than
the terms set forth in this AWC and the prospect of avoiding the issuance of a complaint, has
been made to induce Respondent to submit this AWC.
July 12, 2024

Date

____________________________________
JVM Securities, LLC
Respondent
Print Name:

Jay Madary

Title: Owner
Reviewed by:

_______________________
Gerald Miller
Counsel for Respondent
Gerald M. Miller Ltd.
707 Skokie Boulevard, Suite 600
Northbrook, IL 60062
Accepted by FINRA:
Signed on behalf of the
Director of ODA, by delegated authority
August 5, 2024
Date

4

Rebecca Segrest4
Senior Counsel
FINRA
Department of Enforcement
9509 Key West Avenue
Rockville, MD 20850

Licensed to practice law in Georgia only.

8

