FINANCIAL INDUSTRY REGULATORY AUTHORITY
LETTER OF ACCEPTANCE, WAIVER, AND CONSENT
NO. 2022073262401
TO:

Department of Enforcement
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA)

RE:

G.research, LLC (Respondent)
Member Firm
CRDNo. 7353

Pursuant to FINRA Rule 9216, Respondent G.research, LLC submits this Letter of Acceptance,
Waiver, and Consent (AWC) for the purpose of proposing a settlement of the alleged rule
violations described below. This A WC is submitted on the condition that, if accepted, FINRA
will not bring any future actions against Respondent alleging violations based on the same
factual findings described in this AWC.

I.
ACCEPTANCE AND CONSENT
A.

Respondent accepts and consents to the following findings by FINRA without admitting
or denying them:
BACKGROUND
G.research has been a FINRA member since February 1977. The firm, which is located in
Rye, New York, has 19 registered representatives. Although G.research's primary
business is acting as an agent in transactions of managed accounts directed by an
affiliated investment advisory business, it also offers self-directed brokerage accounts to
customers of its affiliated investment advisory business. 1
OVERVIEW
From June 30, 2020, to May 1, 2023, G.research failed to disclose its own and its control
affiliates' disciplinary history in the firm's customer relationship summary (Form CRS).
By filing and delivering to customers a Form CRS that omitted required information,
G.research willfully violated Section 17(a)(l) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and
Exchange Act Rule 17a-14, and violated FINRA Rule 2010.
From June 30, 2020, to the present, G.research has failed to establish and maintain a
supervisory system, including written supervisory procedures (WSPs), reasonably
designed to achieve compliance with Exchange Act§ 17(a)(l) and Exchange Act Rule
l 7a-14, in violation ofFINRA Rules 3110 and 2010.

1
For more information about the firm, including prior regulatory events, visit BrokerCheck® at
www.finra.org/brokercheck.

FACTS AND VIOLATIVE CONDUCT
This matter originated from the 2022 examination of G.research.
A. G.research provided an inaccurate response to the Form CRS question concerning
legal or disciplinary history.
On June 5, 2019, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) adopted Form CRS
and rules creating new requirements-which include requirements to prepare and deliver
the Form CRS-for SEC-registered broker-dealers offering services to a retail investor.
The compliance date for Form CRS was June 30, 2020.
Form CRS provides customers with information about the types of services the firm
offers; the fees, costs, conflicts of interest, and required standard of conduct associated
with those services; whether the firm and its investment professionals have reportable
legal or disciplinary history; and how to get more information about the firm.
Form CRS also includes required "conversation starters" to help begin a discussion with
a broker-dealer about the relationship, including their services, fees, costs, conflicts, and
disciplinary information.
Section 17(a)(l) of the Exchange Act requires registered broker-dealers to make and keep
for prescribed periods such records, furnish such copies thereof, and make and
disseminate such reports as the Commission deems "necessary or appropriate in the
public interest, for the protection of investors or otherwise in furtherance of the purposes
of' the Exchange Act. Exchange Act Rule 17a-14-titled "Form CRS, for preparation,
filing and delivery of Form CRS"-requires broker-dealers offering services to a retail
investor to prepare a Form CRS in accordance with the instructions in Form CRS, and to
comply with requirements related to filing, amending, delivering, and posting the Form
CRS to the firm's public website.
A violation of Exchange Act§ 17(a)(l) and Exchange Act Rule 17a-14 also is a violation
ofFINRA Rule 2010, which requires member firms to observe high standards of
commercial honor and just and equitable principles of trade in the conduct of their
business.
Form CRS contains the heading, "Do you or your financial professionals have legal or
disciplinary history?" Item 4 of the instructions to Form CRS state that a firm must
respond "Yes" if it or any of its financial professionals disclose, or is required to disclose,
legal or disciplinary history on specified regulatory disclosure forms, such as Form BD. 2
2

These forms are submitted to the Central Registration Depository by member firms or regulators. Broker-dealers
file Form BD (Uniform Application for Broker-Dealer Regulation) to become registered with the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission, FINRA, other self-regulatory organizations, and jurisdictions (e.g., U.S. states and
territories).

2

Because a firm must disclose on Form BD its own legal or disciplinary history as well as
that of its "control affiliates," 3 a firm must respond "Yes" to the Form CRS question
concerning legal or disciplinary history if any of its control affiliates has legal or
disciplinary history. Item 4 also requires a firm to direct retail investors to
Investor.gov/CRS for a free and simple search tool to research the firm and its financial
professionals.
G.research and four of its control affiliates had prior reportable legal or disciplinary
history. However, G.research did not respond "Yes" or direct retail investors to
Investor.gov/CRS in response to the question concerning legal or disciplinary history on
the Form CRS it filed on June 30, 2020, or on its amended Form CRS filed on April 14,
2022. On May 1, 2023, the firm filed an amended Form CRS that responded "Yes" to the
question concerning legal or disciplinary history and directed retail investors to
Investor.gov/CRS.
Therefore, from June 30, 2020, to May 1, 2023, G.research willfully violated Exchange
Act§ l 7(a)(l) and Exchange Act Rule 17a-14, and violated FINRA Rule 2010.

B. G.research has failed to establish and maintain a supervisory system, including
WSPs, reasonably designed to achieve compliance with its Form CRS obligations.
FINRA Rule 3110 requires member firms to establish, maintain, and enforce a
supervisory system, including WSPs, reasonably designed to achieve compliance with
applicable securities laws, regulations, and FINRA rules. A violation of FINRA Rule
3110 also is a violation ofFINRA Rule 2010.
Since June 30, 2020, G.research has failed to establish and maintain a supervisory
system, including WSPs, reasonably designed to achieve compliance with Form CRS
requirements. Until July 2021, the firm's WSPs contained no provisions relating to Form
CRS. In July 2021, the firm updated its WSPs to provide guidance regarding Form CRS.
The firm's WSPs, even after this update, fail to identify any individual or individuals
responsible for compliance with Form CRS requirements, and the updated WSPs do not
prescribe procedures for supervising how the firm should review its Form CRS to
determine whether updates are required or whether its Form CRS includes all required
information.
Therefore, G.research violated FINRA Rules 3110 and 2010.
B.

Respondent also consents to the imposition of the following sanctions:

•

a censure;

•

a $30,000 fine; and

3

According to Fonn BD, a "control affiliate" includes any individual or organization that directly or indirectly
controls, is under common control with, or is controlled by, a finn.

3

■

an undertaking that, within 60 days of the date of the notice of acceptance of this
A WC, a member of Respondent's senior management who is a registered
principal of the firm shall certify in writing that, as of the date of the certification,
the firm has implemented reasonably designed written supervisory procedures
regarding its compliance with Form CRS requirements. The certification shall
include a narrative description and supporting exhibits sufficient to demonstrate
Respondent's remediation and implementation. FINRA staff may request further
evidence of Respondent's remediation and implementation, and Respondent
agrees to provide such evidence. Respondent shall submit the certification to
Jennifer Cullinane, Counsel, FINRA Department of Enforcement electronically to
Jennifer.Cullinane@finra.org, with a copy to EnforcementNotice@finra.org.
Upon written request showing good cause, FINRA staff may extend this deadline.

Respondent agrees to pay the monetary sanction upon notice that this A WC has been
accepted and that such payment is due and payable. Respondent has submitted an
Election of Payment form showing the method by which it proposes to pay the fine
imposed.
Respondent specifically and voluntarily waives any right to claim an inability to pay, now
or at any time after the execution of this A WC, the monetary sanction imposed in this
matter.
Respondent understands that this settlement includes a finding that it willfully violated
Section 17(a)(l) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and Exchange Act Rule l 7a-14
and that under Article III, Section 4 ofFINRA's By-Laws, this makes Respondent
subject to a statutory disqualification with respect to membership.
The sanctions imposed in this A WC shall be effective on a date set by FINRA.
II.

WAIVER OF PROCEDURAL RIGHTS
Respondent specifically and voluntarily waives the following rights granted under FINRA's
Code of Procedure:
A.

To have a complaint issued specifying the allegations against it;

B.

To be notified of the complaint and have the opportunity to answer the allegations
in writing;

C.

To defend against the allegations in a disciplinary hearing before a hearing panel,
to have a written record of the hearing made, and to have a written decision
issued; and

4

D.

To appeal any such decision to the National Adjudicatory Council (NAC) and
then to the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission and a U.S. Court of
Appeals.

Further, Respondent specifically and voluntarily waives any right to claim bias or prejudgment
of the Chief Legal Officer, the NAC, or any member of the NAC, in connection with such
person's or body's participation in discussions regarding the terms and conditions of this A WC,
or other consideration of this A WC, including its acceptance or rejection.
Respondent further specifically and voluntarily waives any right to claim that a person violated
the ex parte prohibitions ofFINRA Rule 9143 or the separation of functions prohibit_ions of
FINRA Rule 9144, in connection with such person's or body's participation in discussions
regarding the terms and conditions of this AWC, or other consideration of this AWC, including
its acceptance or rejection.

III.
OTHER MATTERS

Respondent understands that:
A.

Submission of this AWC is voluntary and will not resolve this matter unless and
until it has been reviewed and accepted by the NAC, a Review Subcommittee of
the NAC, or the Office of Disciplinary Affairs (ODA), pursuant to FINRA Rule
9216;

B.

If this AWC is not accepted, its submission will not be used as evidence to prove
any of the allegations against Respondent; and

C.

If accepted:
1.

this A WC will become part of Respondent's permanent disciplinary
record and may be considered in any future action brought by FINRA or
any other regulator against Respondent;

2.

this AWC will be made available through FINRA's public disclosure
program in accordance with FINRA Rule 8313;

3.

FINRA may make a public announcement concerning this agreement and
its subject matter in accordance with FINRA Rule 8313; and
Respondent may not take any action or make or permit to be made any
public statement, including in regulatory filings or otherwise, denying,
directly or indirectly, any finding in this A WC or create the impression
that the A WC is without factual basis. Respondent may not take any
position in any proceeding brought by or on behalf ofFINRA, or to which
FINRA is a party, that is inconsistent with any part of this AWC. Nothing

4.

5

in this provision affects Respondent's right to take legal or factual
positions in litigation or other legal proceedings in which FINRA is not a
party. Nothing in this provision affects Respondent's testimonial
obligations in any litigation or other legal proceedings.
D.

Respondent may attach a corrective action statement to this A WC that is a
statement of demonstrable corrective steps taken to prevent future misconduct.
Respondent understands that it may not deny the charges or make any statement
that is inconsistent with the A WC in this statement. This statement does not
constitute factual or legal findings by FINRA, nor does it reflect the views of
FINRA.

The undersigned, on behalf of Respondent, certifies that a person duly authorized to act on
Respondent's behalf has read and understands all of the provisions of this AWC and has been
given a full opportunity to ask questions about it; that Respondent has agreed to the AWC's
provisions voluntarily; and that no offer, threat, inducement, or promise of any kind, other than
the terms set forth in this A WC and the prospect of avoiding the issuance of a complaint, has
been made to induce Respondent to submit this A WC.

Date

~~

G.research, LLC
Respondent

V.1 ;11 c. eAl t- _'4 fl 48 IL£
Parls ,,Q[ht/4--::

Print Name:
Title:

Accepted by FINRA:
Signed on behalf of the
Director of ODA, by delegated authority

November 11, 2024
Date

~ ~
Jennifer Cullinane
Counsel
FINRA
Department of Enforcement
99 High Street, 9th Floor
Boston, MA 02110

6

