FINANCIAL INDUSTRY REGULATORY AUTHORITY
LETTER OF ACCEPTANCE, WAIVER, AND CONSENT
NO. 2022077257801
TO:

Department of Enforcement
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA)

RE:

Malay Kumar (Respondent)
Former Investment Company and Variable Contracts Products Representative
CRD No. 2482909

Pursuant to FINRA Rule 9216, Respondent Malay Kumar submits this Letter of Acceptance,
Waiver, and Consent (AWC) for the purpose of proposing a settlement of the alleged rule
violations described below. This AWC is submitted on the condition that, if accepted, FINRA
will not bring any future actions against Respondent alleging violations based on the same
factual findings described in this AWC.
I.
ACCEPTANCE AND CONSENT
A.

Respondent accepts and consents to the following findings by FINRA without admitting
or denying them:
BACKGROUND
Kumar first became registered with FINRA as an Investment Company and Variable
Contracts Products Representative through an association with a FINRA member firm in
1996. Kumar became registered as an Investment Company and Variable Contracts
Product Representative through an association with Cambridge Investment Research, Inc.
(CRD No. 39543) in January 2018. On December 21, 2021, Cambridge filed a Uniform
Termination Notice for Securities Industry Registration (Form U5), disclosing that
Kumar had been discharged from the firm. Although Kumar is not currently associated
with a FINRA member, he remains subject to FINRA’s jurisdiction pursuant to Article V,
Section 4 of FINRA’s By-Laws. 1
OVERVIEW
Between June 2018 and October 2021, Kumar recommended that seven of his customers
exchange variable annuities without reasonably considering the impact of the substantial
surrender fees and the loss of benefits and liquidity caused by the exchanges. As a result,
Kumar did not have a reasonable basis to believe that his recommendations were suitable
or, after June 30, 2020, in his customers’ best interest. By this conduct, Kumar willfully
violated the Care Obligation of Rule 15l-1 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
(Regulation BI or Reg BI), and violated FINRA Rules 2111, 2330, and 2010.

1

For more information about the respondent, visit BrokerCheck® at www finra.org/brokercheck.

Between May 2018 and October 2021, Kumar provided inaccurate information about the
source of funds on the transaction documents he submitted to the firm and the annuity
issuers. Specifically, Kumar failed to identify and submit eighteen variable annuity
purchases as exchanges even though each purchase was funded by the sale of another
variable annuity. In doing so, Kumar caused his firm to create and maintain inaccurate
books and records. As such, Kumar violated FINRA Rule 2010 by falsifying documents
and making false statements and he separately violated FINRA Rules 4511 and 2010 by
causing his firm to maintain inaccurate books and records.
FACTS AND VIOLATIVE CONDUCT
Regulation Best Interest and FINRA Suitability Rules
As of June 30, 2020, broker-dealers and their associated persons are required to comply
with Regulation BI under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Reg BI requires a broker,
dealer, or a natural person associated with a broker or dealer, when making a
recommendation of any securities transaction or investment strategy involving securities
(including account recommendations) to a retail customer, to act in the best interest of
that retail customer at the time the recommendation is made, without placing the financial
or other interest of the broker, dealer, or associated person ahead of the interest of the
retail customer.
Reg BI’s Care Obligation, set forth at Exchange Act Rule 15l-1(a)(2)(ii), requires brokerdealers and their associated persons to exercise reasonable diligence, care, and skill to,
among other things, have a reasonable basis to believe that the recommendation is in the
best interest of a particular retail customer based on that retail customer’s investment
profile and the potential risks, rewards, and costs associated with the recommendation.
Regulation BI defines a “retail customer investment profile” to include, but not be limited
to, the customer's age, other investments, financial situation and needs, tax status,
investment objectives, investment experience, investment time horizon, liquidity needs,
risk tolerance, and any other information the customer may disclose to the member or
associated person in connection with such recommendation.
Prior to June 30, 2020, FINRA Rule 2111 required members and associated persons to
have a reasonable basis to believe that a recommended transaction or investment strategy
involving a security or securities is suitable for the customer, based on the information
obtained through the reasonable diligence of the member or associated person to ascertain
the customer's investment profile. FINRA Rule 2111 defined a customer’s investment
profile to include the same information as under the Care Obligation.
FINRA Rule 2330(b) imposes additional requirements that apply to recommendations to
purchase or exchange deferred variable annuities. When recommending a deferred
variable annuity, a registered representative must have a reasonable basis to believe that
“the particular deferred variable annuity as a whole, the underlying subaccounts to which
funds are allocated at the time of the purchase or exchange of the deferred variable
annuity, and riders and similar product enhancements, if any, are suitable (and, in the
2

case of an exchange, the transaction as a whole also is suitable) for the particular
customer.” For exchanges of deferred variable annuities, the suitability determination
also must take into consideration whether, among other things, the customer would incur
a surrender charge, be subject to a new surrender period, lose existing benefits, or be
subject to increased fees or charges.
Violations of Reg BI and FINRA Rules 2111 and 2330 also constitute violations of
FINRA Rule 2010, which requires associated persons to observe high standards of
commercial honor and just and equitable principles of trade in the conduct of their
business.
Kumar Made Unsuitable Recommendations That Were Not in His Customers’ Best
Interest
Between June 2018 and October 2021, Kumar recommended deferred variable annuity
exchanges to seven firm customers without having a reasonable basis to believe the
recommendations were suitable or in his customer’s best interest. Significantly, Kumar
recommended that his customers surrender, in full or in part, their existing variable
annuity directly with the insurance company. As a result of these transactions, each of the
seven customers incurred surrender fees. All seven of these customers relinquished living
benefit riders (several of which had a benefit base that substantially exceeded the contract
value), and five of them also relinquished an enhanced death benefit.
Kumar then separately recommended, shortly after they had received the proceeds of
these surrenders, that these customers purchase a new variable annuity without ever
considering and evaluating the two contracts as an exchange as required by FINRA Rule
2330(b). Specifically, when submitting transaction paperwork for the new variable
annuity purchases, Kumar treated each purchase as a new purchase in the application and
disclosure paperwork and conducted no comparison of the existing or new contracts.
Moreover, when making these recommendations, Kumar was aware that at least three of
his customers were facing significant liquidity issues.
Kumar did not reasonably consider any of the disadvantages of these exchanges,
including surrender fees, the imposition of new, lengthier surrender periods, and the loss
of valuable existing benefits, when recommending that his customers liquidate their
existing contracts to purchase new variable annuities, and he did not document any of
these disadvantages in the transaction paperwork. Kumar also did not conduct a
comparative analysis of the advantages and disadvantages of the existing and new
variable annuities or make a determination that the customers would benefit from the
exchanges. Kumar thus lacked a reasonable basis to believe that the recommendations
were suitable and in the best interest of his customers based on their investment profile
and the potential risks, rewards, and costs associated with his recommendations.
Collectively, these exchange recommendations caused Kumar’s customers to incur
$50,103.43 in surrender fees. By recommending variable annuity exchanges without
having a reasonable basis to conclude that the transactions were suitable or in the
3

customers’ best interest, Kumar willfully violated Exchange Act Rule 15l-1 (for
exchanges on and after June 30, 2020), violated FINRA Rule 2111 (for exchanges prior
to June 30, 2020), and violated FINRA Rules 2330 and 2010 (for all exchanges).
Kumar Falsified Documents and Made False Statements About Variable Annuity
Transactions
FINRA Rule 2010 requires associated persons to observe high standards of commercial
honor and just and equitable principles of trade in the conduct of their business.
Falsifying documents occurs when a person creates a document or entry in a firm's
system that creates a false appearance by including altered or untrue information.
Falsifying documents is inconsistent with just and equitable principles of trade and
violates FINRA Rule 2010.
FINRA Rule 4511 requires member firms to make and preserve books and records in
conformity with FINRA rules and Rules 17a-3 and 17a-4 of the Securities Exchange Act.
Inherent in the obligation to make and preserve books and records is the requirement that
they be accurate. A registered representative who enters inaccurate information into a
firm’s books and records violates FINRA Rules 4511 and 2010.
Cambridge’s compliance procedures mandated that registered representatives fully
document “annuity replacement transactions,” which were defined as a transaction where
an annuity is sold and the proceeds used to fund the purchase of another annuity. These
procedures were designed to provide customers with the information necessary to
compare the relative costs and benefits of the annuities being replaced and purchased,
allow customers to make an informed investment decision, and to allow the firm the
opportunity to perform a supervisory review of the suitability of the replacement
transaction.
Between May 2018 and October 2021, Kumar failed to identify and submit eighteen
variable annuity purchases as annuity replacements, even though each purchase was
funded by the sale of another variable annuity. For sixteen of the purchases, Kumar
signed and submitted the required disclosure forms to his firm stating that the customer
had not surrendered or exchanged any variable annuity in the past 36 months even though
Kumar had assisted the customer in surrendering another variable annuity less than sixty
days prior to the purchase. Kumar left this question blank for two purchases. For each
purchase, the forms falsely stated that the source of funds for the new purchase was a
qualified retirement plan, CD, or savings from earned income. Kumar also signed and
submitted rationales for twelve of the new purchases which stated a false source of
income. Kumar signed and submitted application paperwork to the annuity issuer in
connection with these transactions that falsely stated the transaction was not funded by
another variable annuity.

4

By submitting false statements on firm and issuer paperwork used for the purchase and
supervision of variable annuities, Kumar violated FINRA Rule 2010. Moreover, Kumar
violated FINRA Rules 4511 and 2010 by causing the firm to maintain inaccurate books
and records.
B.

Respondent also consents to the imposition of the following sanctions:


a twelve-month suspension from associating with any FINRA member in all
capacities;



a $10,000 fine; and



restitution of $50,103.43 plus interest as described below.

The sanctions imposed in this AWC shall be effective on a date set by FINRA.
The fine shall be due and payable either immediately upon reassociation with a member
firm or prior to any application or request for relief from any statutory disqualification
resulting from this or any other event or proceeding, whichever is earlier.
Restitution is ordered to be paid to the customers listed on Attachment A to this AWC
(Eligible Customers) in the total amount of $50,103.43, plus interest at the rate set forth
in Section 6621(a)(2) of the Internal Revenue Code, 26 U.S.C. § 6621(a)(2), from date of
the surrender until the date the restitution plus interest are due and payable.
Restitution plus interest ordered pursuant to this disciplinary action are due and payable
immediately upon reassociation with a member firm or upon submission of any
application or request for relief from any statutory disqualification resulting from this or
any other event or proceeding, whichever is earlier.
Respondent shall submit satisfactory proof of payment of restitution and interest
(separately specifying the date and amount of each paid to each Eligible Customer) or of
reasonable and documented efforts undertaken to effect restitution. Such proof shall be
submitted by email to EnforcementNotice@FINRA.org. The email must identify
Respondent and the case number and include a copy of the check, money order, or other
method of payment. This proof shall be provided by email to
EnforcementNotice@FINRA.org no later than 120 days after the date the restitution plus
interest are due and payable.
The restitution amount plus interest to be paid to each Eligible Customer shall be treated
by the Respondent as the Eligible Customer’s property for purposes of state escheatment,
unclaimed property, abandoned property, and similar laws. If after reasonable and
documented efforts undertaken to effect restitution Respondent is unable to pay all
Eligible Customers within 120 days after the restitution and interest are due and payable,
Respondent shall submit to FINRA in the manner described above a list of the unpaid
Eligible Customers and a description of Respondent’s plan, not unacceptable to FINRA,
5

to comply with the applicable escheatment, unclaimed property, abandoned property, or
similar laws for each such Eligible Customer.
Respondent specifically and voluntarily waives any right to claim an inability to pay, now
or at any time after the execution of this AWC, the monetary sanctions imposed in this
matter.
The imposition of a restitution order or any other monetary sanctions in this AWC, and
the timing of such ordered payments, does not preclude customers from pursuing their
own actions to obtain restitution or other remedies.
Respondent understands that if he is barred or suspended from associating with any
FINRA member, he becomes subject to a statutory disqualification as that term is defined
in Article III, Section 4 of FINRA’s By-Laws, incorporating Section 3(a)(39) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Accordingly, he may not be associated with any
FINRA member in any capacity, including clerical or ministerial functions, during the
period of the bar or suspension. See FINRA Rules 8310 and 8311.
Respondent understands that this settlement includes a finding that he willfully violated
Rule 15l-1 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and that under Article III, Section 4 of
FINRA’s By-Laws, this makes him subject to statutory disqualification with respect to
association with a member.
II.
WAIVER OF PROCEDURAL RIGHTS
Respondent specifically and voluntarily waives the following rights granted under FINRA’s
Code of Procedure:
A.

To have a complaint issued specifying the allegations against him;

B.

To be notified of the complaint and have the opportunity to answer the allegations
in writing;

C.

To defend against the allegations in a disciplinary hearing before a hearing panel,
to have a written record of the hearing made, and to have a written decision
issued; and

D.

To appeal any such decision to the National Adjudicatory Council (NAC) and
then to the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission and a U.S. Court of
Appeals.

Further, Respondent specifically and voluntarily waives any right to claim bias or prejudgment
of the Chief Legal Officer, the NAC, or any member of the NAC, in connection with such
person’s or body’s participation in discussions regarding the terms and conditions of this AWC,
or other consideration of this AWC, including its acceptance or rejection.
6

Respondent further specifically and voluntarily waives any right to claim that a person violated
the ex parte prohibitions of FINRA Rule 9143 or the separation of functions prohibitions of
FINRA Rule 9144, in connection with such person’s or body’s participation in discussions
regarding the terms and conditions of this AWC, or other consideration of this AWC, including
its acceptance or rejection.
III.
OTHER MATTERS
Respondent understands that:
A.

Submission of this AWC is voluntary and will not resolve this matter unless and
until it has been reviewed and accepted by the NAC, a Review Subcommittee of
the NAC, or the Office of Disciplinary Affairs (ODA), pursuant to FINRA Rule
9216;

B.

If this AWC is not accepted, its submission will not be used as evidence to prove
any of the allegations against Respondent; and

C.

If accepted:
1.

this AWC will become part of Respondent’s permanent disciplinary
record and may be considered in any future action brought by FINRA or
any other regulator against Respondent;

2.

this AWC will be made available through FINRA’s public disclosure
program in accordance with FINRA Rule 8313;

3.

FINRA may make a public announcement concerning this agreement and
its subject matter in accordance with FINRA Rule 8313; and

4.

Respondent may not take any action or make or permit to be made any
public statement, including in regulatory filings or otherwise, denying,
directly or indirectly, any finding in this AWC or create the impression
that the AWC is without factual basis. Respondent may not take any
position in any proceeding brought by or on behalf of FINRA, or to which
FINRA is a party, that is inconsistent with any part of this AWC. Nothing
in this provision affects Respondent’s right to take legal or factual
positions in litigation or other legal proceedings in which FINRA is not a
party. Nothing in this provision affects Respondent’s testimonial
obligations in any litigation or other legal proceedings.

7

D.

Respondent may attach a corrective action statement to this AWC that is a
statement of demonstrable corrective steps taken to prevent future misconduct.
Respondent understands that he may not deny the charges or make any statement
that is inconsistent with the AWC in this statement. This statement does not
constitute factual or legal findings by FINRA, nor does it reflect the views of
FINRA.

Respondent certifies that he has read and understands all of the provisions of this AWC and has
been given a full opportunity to ask questions about it; Respondent has agreed to the AWC’s
provisions voluntarily; and no offer, threat, inducement, or promise of any kind, other than the
terms set forth in this AWC and the prospect of avoiding the issuance of a complaint, has been
made to induce him to submit this AWC.

November 28, 2023
Date

Malay Kumar
Respondent

Reviewed by:
__________________________
Alina Veneziano
Counsel for Respondent
Oberheiden P.C.
30 Wall St., 8th Floor
New York, NY 10005
Accepted by FINRA:
Signed on behalf of the
Director of ODA, by delegated authority
November 30, 2023
Date

Catherine L. Hoge
Counsel
FINRA
Department of Enforcement
Brookfield Place
200 Liberty Street
New York, NY 10281

8

ATTACHMENT A
TO LETTER OF ACCEPTANCE, WAIVER, AND CONSENT
MATTER NO. 2022077257801
SCHEDULE OF RESTITUTION
Customer
Customer 1
Customers 1 and 2
Customer 3
Customer 4
Customer 5
Customer 6
Customer 7

Restitution Exclusive of Interest
$5,785.37
$20,136.62
$3,501.73
$9,789.37
$5,874.62
$1,415.72
$3,600.00
TOTAL: $50,103.43

