FINANCIAL INDUSTRY REGULATORY AUTHORITY
LETTER OF ACCEPTANCE, WAIVER, AND CONSENT
NO. 2022073332301
TO:

Department of Enforcement
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA)

RE:

Parsonex Capital Markets, LLC (Respondent)
Member Firm
CRD No. 169578

Pursuant to FINRA Rule 9216, Respondent Parsonex Capital Markets, LLC submits this Letter
of Acceptance, Waiver, and Consent (AWC) for the purpose of proposing a settlement of the
alleged rule violations described below. This AWC is submitted on the condition that, if
accepted, FINRA will not bring any future actions against Respondent alleging violations based
on the same factual findings described in this AWC.
I.
ACCEPTANCE AND CONSENT
A.

Respondent accepts and consents to the following findings by FINRA without admitting
or denying them:
BACKGROUND
Parsonex Capital Markets became a FINRA member in 2014. The firm, which is
headquartered in Englewood, Colorado, has one branch office and six registered
representatives. The firm’s primary business consists of acting as a managing dealer or
placement agent for private placements that it offers to retail investors. 1
OVERVIEW
Since June 30, 2020, Parsonex Capital Markets has omitted required information from the
firm’s customer relationship summary (Form CRS). Most significantly, from June 30,
2020, to February 9, 2023, the firm failed to disclose on its Form CRS that a number of
its financial professionals had legal or disciplinary history. Additionally, since April 13,
2023, the firm has failed to update its Form CRS to disclose that its control affiliate has
legal or disciplinary history. By filing and delivering to customers a Form CRS that
omitted required information and then failing to update it, Parsonex Capital Markets
willfully violated Section 17(a)(1) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and Exchange
Act Rule 17a-14, and violated FINRA Rule 2010.

1

For more information about the firm, visit BrokerCheck® at www.finra.org/brokercheck.

FACTS AND VIOLATIVE CONDUCT
This matter originated from the 2022 FINRA Firm Examination of Parsonex Capital
Markets.
On June 5, 2019, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) adopted Form CRS
and rules creating new requirements—which include requirements to prepare, file,
deliver, and update the Form CRS—for SEC-registered broker-dealers offering services
to a retail investor. The compliance date for Form CRS was June 30, 2020.
Form CRS provides customers with information about the types of services the firm
offers; the fees, costs, conflicts of interest, and required standard of conduct associated
with those services; whether the firm and its investment professionals have reportable
legal or disciplinary history; and how to get more information about the firm.
Form CRS also includes required “conversation starters” to help begin a discussion with
a broker-dealer about the relationship, including their services, fees, costs, conflicts, and
disciplinary information.
Section 17(a)(1) of the Exchange Act requires registered broker-dealers to make and keep
for prescribed periods such records, furnish such copies thereof, and make and
disseminate such reports as the Commission deems “necessary or appropriate in the
public interest, for the protection of investors or otherwise in furtherance of the purposes
of” the Exchange Act. Exchange Act Rule 17a-14—titled “Form CRS, for preparation,
filing and delivery of Form CRS”—requires broker-dealers offering services to a retail
investor to prepare a Form CRS in accordance with the instructions in Form CRS, and to
comply with requirements related to filing, amending, delivering, and posting the Form
CRS to the firm’s public website.
Rule 17a-14 also requires broker-dealers to update Form CRS and file it within 30 days
whenever any information in the Form CRS becomes materially inaccurate. The filing
must include an exhibit highlighting changes. The updated Form CRS, with changes
highlighted, or another disclosure that communicates the changes, must be delivered to
retail investors who are existing customers within 60 days after the updates are required
to be made and without charge.
A violation of Exchange Act § 17(a)(1) and Exchange Act Rule 17a-14 also is a violation
of FINRA Rule 2010, which requires member firms to observe high standards of
commercial honor and just and equitable principles of trade in the conduct of their
business.

2

A.

Parsonex Capital Markets has provided inaccurate responses to the Form
CRS question concerning legal or disciplinary history.

Form CRS contains the heading, “Do you or your financial professionals have legal or
disciplinary history?” The instructions to Form CRS state that a firm must respond “Yes”
if it or any of its financial professionals discloses, or is required to disclose, legal or
disciplinary history on specified regulatory disclosure forms, such as Forms BD, U4, U5,
and U6. 2 Legal or disciplinary history that is required to be disclosed on those forms
includes criminal history, regulatory actions, civil judicial actions, and specified financial
events (e.g., bankruptcies, judgments, and liens). Because a firm must disclose on Form
BD not only its own legal or disciplinary history, but also that of its “control affiliates,” 3
a firm must respond “Yes” to the Form CRS question concerning legal or disciplinary
history if any of its control affiliates has legal or disciplinary history. 4
First, between June 30, 2020, and February 9, 2023, Parsonex Capital Markets failed to
respond “Yes” to the Form CRS question concerning legal or disciplinary history, even
though four of its registered representatives in fact had prior legal or disciplinary history.
Without addressing those representatives’ prior legal or disciplinary history, the firm
responded, “No, the Firm does not have a disciplinary history.” At the time Parsonex
Capital Markets filed its initial Form CRS on June 29, 2020, Form U4 or U6 filings for
two of the firm’s registered representatives, including the firm’s Chief Financial Officer,
disclosed prior legal or disciplinary history. And Form U4 or U5 filings for two
additional registered representatives, who became associated with the firm in June 2021
and April 2022, likewise disclosed prior legal or disciplinary history. All of those filings,
and the disclosures contained in the filings, were reflected in FINRA’s Central
Registration Depository (CRD) and in BrokerCheck®, and were made by or were
available to the firm. On February 9, 2023, the firm updated its Form CRS to respond,
“Yes, while the Firm does not have any disciplinary history some of our representatives
do.”
Second, Parsonex Capital Markets has failed, since April 13, 2023, to update its Form
CRS to disclose that its control affiliate has legal or disciplinary history. On March 13,
2023, the control affiliate—an investment adviser that is registered with the U.S.
These forms are submitted to the Central Registration Depository by member firms or regulators. Broker-dealers
file Form BD (Uniform Application for Broker-Dealer Regulation) to become registered with the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission, FINRA, other self-regulatory organizations, and jurisdictions (e.g., U.S. states and
territories); Form U4 (Uniform Application for Securities Industry Registration or Transfer) is used to elicit
employment history, disciplinary, and other information about individuals, to register them with FINRA, other selfregulatory organizations, or jurisdictions; Form U5 (Uniform Termination Notice for Securities Industry
Registration) is used to terminate individuals’ registrations with FINRA, other self-regulatory organizations, or
jurisdictions, and to elicit details regarding the reasons for termination; and Form U6 (Uniform Disciplinary Action
Reporting Form) is used by regulators to report disclosure events and disciplinary actions against individuals and
organizations, and to report final FINRA arbitration awards against broker-dealers and associated persons.
2

According to Form BD, a “control affiliate” includes any individual or organization that directly or indirectly
controls, is under common control with, or is controlled by, a firm.
3

See U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, Frequently Asked Questions on Form CRS, available at
https://www.sec.gov/investment/form-crs-faq.
4

3

Securities and Exchange Commission—entered into a cease-and-desist order with the
Commission for failing to adopt and implement reasonably designed compliance policies
and procedures as required under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940, and for failing to
seek best execution of client securities transactions. Parsonex Capital Markets therefore
was required to update its Form CRS by April 12, 2023—30 days after the Commission’s
order. Regulatory disclosures reflecting the control affiliate’s disciplinary history were
available to the firm in CRD and in BrokerCheck®. The firm updated its Form BD on
April 11, 2023, to disclose that its control affiliate had been the subject of a disciplinary
action. Nonetheless, Parsonex Capital Markets has failed to date to update its Form CRS
to disclose that the control affiliate has legal or disciplinary history.
Therefore, Parsonex Capital Markets willfully violated Exchange Act § 17(a)(1) and
Exchange Act Rule 17a-14, and violated FINRA Rule 2010.
B.

Parsonex Capital Markets has omitted other required information from its
Form CRS.

Parsonex Capital Markets likewise has omitted from its Form CRS other required
information. Specifically, the Instructions to Form CRS require the firm to include
specific headings and disclosures about potential conflicts of interest, including the
following language:
When we provide you with a recommendation, we have to act in your best
interest and not put our interest ahead of yours. At the same time, the way
we make money creates some conflicts with your interests. You should
understand and ask us about these conflicts because they can affect the
recommendations we provide you. Here are some examples to help you
understand what this means.
Both versions of the firm’s Form CRS omit this required language.
Parsonex Capital Markets also failed, in both versions of its Form CRS, to disclose under
the heading, “What fees will I pay?,” a discussion of conflicts of interest. The
Instructions to Form CRS require the firm to summarize “the principal fees and costs that
retail investors will incur” for brokerage services, including the conflicts of interest they
create. Neither version of the firm’s Form CRS contains this required summary.
Therefore, Parsonex Capital Markets willfully violated Exchange Act § 17(a)(1) and
Exchange Act Rule 17a-14, and violated FINRA Rule 2010.
B.

Respondent also consents to the imposition of the following sanctions:


a censure;

4



a $10,000 fine; 5 and



an undertaking that, within 30 days of the date of the notice of acceptance of this
AWC, a member of Respondent’s senior management who is a registered
principal of the firm shall certify in writing that, as of the date of the certification,
the firm has reviewed and remediated the deficiencies in its Form CRS, and has
filed, delivered, and posted to its website a Form CRS that complies with
Exchange Act § 17(a)(1) and Exchange Act Rule 17a-14. The certification shall
include a narrative description and supporting exhibits sufficient to demonstrate
Respondent’s remediation and implementation. FINRA staff may request further
evidence of Respondent’s remediation and implementation, and Respondent
agrees to provide such evidence. Respondent shall submit the certification to
Jamie Keesing, Counsel, FINRA, Department of Enforcement, 9509 Key West
Avenue, Gira Building, Rockville, MD 20850, with a copy to
Jamie.Keesing@finra.org and EnforcementNotice@finra.org. Upon written
request showing good cause, FINRA staff may extend this deadline.

Respondent agrees to pay the monetary sanction upon notice that this AWC has been
accepted and that such payment is due and payable. Respondent has submitted an
Election of Payment form showing the method by which it proposes to pay the fine
imposed.
Respondent specifically and voluntarily waives any right to claim an inability to pay, now
or at any time after the execution of this AWC, the monetary sanction imposed in this
matter.
Respondent understands that this settlement includes a finding that it willfully violated
Section 17(a)(1) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and Rule 17a-14 thereunder, and
that under Article III, Section 4 of FINRA’s By-Laws, this makes Respondent subject to
a statutory disqualification with respect to membership.
The sanctions imposed in this AWC shall be effective on a date set by FINRA.
II.
WAIVER OF PROCEDURAL RIGHTS
Respondent specifically and voluntarily waives the following rights granted under FINRA’s
Code of Procedure:
A.

To have a complaint issued specifying the allegations against it;

B.

To be notified of the complaint and have the opportunity to answer the allegations
in writing;

Pursuant to the General Principles Applicable to all Sanction Determinations contained in FINRA’s Sanction
Guidelines, FINRA imposed a lower fine in this case after it considered, among other things, Respondent’s revenues
and financial resources.

5

5

C.

To defend against the allegations in a disciplinary hearing before a hearing panel,
to have a written record of the hearing made, and to have a written decision
issued; and

D.

To appeal any such decision to the National Adjudicatory Council (NAC) and
then to the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission and a U.S. Court of
Appeals.

Further, Respondent specifically and voluntarily waives any right to claim bias or prejudgment
of the Chief Legal Officer, the NAC, or any member of the NAC, in connection with such
person’s or body’s participation in discussions regarding the terms and conditions of this AWC,
or other consideration of this AWC, including its acceptance or rejection.
Respondent further specifically and voluntarily waives any right to claim that a person violated
the ex parte prohibitions of FINRA Rule 9143 or the separation of functions prohibitions of
FINRA Rule 9144, in connection with such person’s or body’s participation in discussions
regarding the terms and conditions of this AWC, or other consideration of this AWC, including
its acceptance or rejection.
III.
OTHER MATTERS
Respondent understands that:
A.

Submission of this AWC is voluntary and will not resolve this matter unless and
until it has been reviewed and accepted by the NAC, a Review Subcommittee of
the NAC, or the Office of Disciplinary Affairs (ODA), pursuant to FINRA Rule
9216;

B.

If this AWC is not accepted, its submission will not be used as evidence to prove
any of the allegations against Respondent; and

C.

If accepted:
1.

this AWC will become part of Respondent’s permanent disciplinary
record and may be considered in any future action brought by FINRA or
any other regulator against Respondent;

2.

this AWC will be made available through FINRA’s public disclosure
program in accordance with FINRA Rule 8313;

3.

FINRA may make a public announcement concerning this agreement and
its subject matter in accordance with FINRA Rule 8313; and

4.

Respondent may not take any action or make or permit to be made any
public statement, including in regulatory filings or otherwise, denying,
6

directly or indirectly, any finding in this AWC or create the impression
that the AWC is without factual basis. Respondent may not take any
position in any proceeding brought by or on behalf of FINRA, or to which
FINRA is a party, that is inconsistent with any part of this AWC. Nothing
in this provision affects Respondent’s right to take legal or factual
positions in litigation or other legal proceedings in which FINRA is not a
party. Nothing in this provision affects Respondent’s testimonial
obligations in any litigation or other legal proceedings.
D.

Respondent may attach a corrective action statement to this AWC that is a
statement of demonstrable corrective steps taken to prevent future misconduct.
Respondent understands that it may not deny the charges or make any statement
that is inconsistent with the AWC in this statement. This statement does not
constitute factual or legal findings by FINRA, nor does it reflect the views of
FINRA.

The undersigned, on behalf of Respondent, certifies that a person duly authorized to act on
Respondent’s behalf has read and understands all of the provisions of this AWC and has been
given a full opportunity to ask questions about it; that Respondent has agreed to the AWC’s
provisions voluntarily; and that no offer, threat, inducement, or promise of any kind, other than
the terms set forth in this AWC and the prospect of avoiding the issuance of a complaint, has
been made to induce Respondent to submit this AWC.

October 19, 2023
Date

____________________________________
Parsonex Capital Markets, LLC
Respondent
Jonathan Miller
Print Name:
Title: President / CEO

Reviewed by:
_______________________
Alan M. Wolper
Counsel for Respondent
Ulmer & Berne LLP
500 W. Madison Street, Suite 3600
Chicago, IL 60661

7

Accepted by FINRA:
Signed on behalf of the
Director of ODA, by delegated authority
November 8, 2023
Date

Jamie P. Keesing
Counsel
FINRA
Department of Enforcement
9509 Key West Avenue, Gira Building
Rockville, MD 20850

8

