FINANCIAL INDUSTRY REGULATORY AUTHORITY
LETTER OF ACCEPTANCE, WAIVER, AND CONSENT
NO. 2022074096804
TO:

Department of Enforcement
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA)

RE:

Investment Network, Inc. (Respondent)
Member Firm
CRD No. 127724
Gary L. Arnold (Respondent)
General Securities Principal
CRD No. 852859

Pursuant to FINRA Rule 9216, Respondents Investment Network, Inc. and Gary L. Arnold
submit this Letter of Acceptance, Waiver, and Consent (AWC) for the purpose of proposing a
settlement of the alleged rule violations described below. This AWC is submitted on the
condition that, if accepted, FINRA will not bring any future actions against Respondents alleging
violations based on the same factual findings described in this AWC.
I.
ACCEPTANCE AND CONSENT
A.

Respondents accept and consent to the following findings by FINRA without admitting
or denying them:
BACKGROUND
Investment Network Inc. (INI) became a FINRA member firm in 2003. The firm is
headquartered in Canton, Ohio, and conducts a general securities business. The firm has
approximately 20 registered representatives and five branch offices. 1
Arnold first became registered with FINRA in 1987. Since October 2003, Arnold has
been registered as a General Securities Principal through an association with INI. From at
least February 2019 to the present, Arnold was INI’s President, Chief Executive Officer,
and Chief Compliance Officer. 2

1

For more information about the firm, including prior regulatory events, visit BrokerCheck® at
www.finra.org/brokercheck.
2

For more information about Arnold, visit BrokerCheck® at www.finra.org/brokercheck.

OVERVIEW
First, INI engaged in various types of misconduct in connection with recommendations
and sales to retail customers of private placement offerings of pre-initial public offering
(pre-IPO) funds (the Offerings) that took place between October 2020 and May 2021:


INI engaged in a deceptive course of business by misrepresenting to investors that
it would receive only a ten percent sales commission from its sale of the Offerings
when, in fact, INI had an agreement with the Offerings’ issuer (the Issuer) to
receive an additional five percent in selling compensation as well as half of any
carried interest. INI never disclosed this agreement or the additional
compensation it would receive to investors. As a result, INI violated FINRA Rule
2010, both independently and by virtue of contravening Section 17(a)(3) of the
Securities Act of 1933. INI also willfully violated Regulation Best Interest (Reg
BI), set forth at Exchange Act Rule 15l-1(a)(1), by failing to comply with Reg
BI’s Disclosure Obligation, set forth at Rule 15l-1(a)(2)(i)(B), and violated
FINRA Rule 2010.



INI lacked a reasonable basis to believe that the Offerings were in the best
interests of at least some retail customers. Prior to recommending and selling the
Offerings, INI failed to confirm that the Issuer had possession of or access to the
pre-IPO shares identified in the offering documents or that the Issuer’s prices and
markups were reasonable and not excessive. As a result, INI willfully violated
Reg BI by failing to comply with Reg BI’s Care Obligation, set forth at Exchange
Act Rule 15l-1(a)(2)(ii)(A), and violated FINRA Rule 2010.



In contravention of the Bank Secrecy Act and its implementing regulations, INI
failed to implement a reasonable Customer Identification Program (CIP) for
customer accounts that were opened by the representatives who sold the
Offerings. INI approved the opening of these accounts without receiving
sufficient information to verify customer identity. As a result, INI violated
FINRA Rules 3310(b) and 2010.



INI failed to make required filings with FINRA in connection with the Offerings.
As a result, INI violated FINRA Rules 5123 and 2010.

Second, INI and Arnold failed to establish, maintain, and enforce a reasonable
supervisory system, including written supervisory procedures (WSPs), in the following
respects:


Between October 2020 and May 2021, INI and Arnold failed to establish,
maintain, and enforce a reasonable supervisory system, including WSPs, to
achieve compliance with Reg BI’s Care Obligation with respect to the firm’s
recommendations of private placement offerings. The firm had no WSPs related
to private placement offerings, including compliance with Reg BI’s Care
Obligation and did not designate a supervisor with responsibility for supervising
such offerings. In practice, the firm failed to conduct reasonable due diligence on
2

the Offerings and failed to supervise recommendations of the Offerings to ensure
that those recommendations were in customers’ best interest. Finally, the firm had
no WSPs related to making private placement filings with FINRA pursuant to
FINRA Rule 5123. As a result, INI willfully violated Reg BI by failing to comply
with Reg BI’s Compliance Obligation, set forth at Exchange Act Rule 15l1(a)(2)(iv), and INI and Arnold violated FINRA Rules 3110 and 2010.


From at least February 2019 to the present, INI and Arnold failed to establish,
maintain, and enforce a supervisory system, including WSPs, reasonably designed
to achieve compliance with the suitability requirements of FINRA Rule 2111 and,
as of June 30, 2020, Reg BI’s Care Obligation, regarding excessive trading. As a
result, INI violated Reg BI by failing to comply with Reg BI’s Compliance
Obligation, set forth at Exchange Act Rule 15l-1(a)(2)(iv), and INI and Arnold
violated FINRA Rules 3110 and 2010



From June 30, 2020, to the present, INI and Arnold failed to establish any written
supervisory procedures concerning Reg BI, and therefore failed to establish,
maintain, and enforce WSPs reasonably designed to achieve compliance with Reg
BI. As a result, INI willfully violated Reg BI by failing to comply with Reg BI’s
Compliance Obligation, and INI and Arnold violated FINRA Rules 3110 and
2010.
FACTS AND VIOLATIVE CONDUCT

The matters covered by this AWC arose from a review of INI’s pre-IPO offerings, as well
as from a cycle examination of the firm.
A.

INI failed to disclose a conflict of interest by misrepresenting the amount of
compensation it received from sales of the Offerings.

Section 17(a) of the Securities Act provides that:
It shall be unlawful for any person in the offer or sale of any
securities . . . by the use of any means or instruments of
transportation or communication in interstate commerce or by the
use of the mails, directly or indirectly . . .
(3) to engage in any transaction, practice, or course of
business which operates or would operate as a fraud or
deceit upon the purchaser.
As of June 30, 2020, broker-dealers and their associated persons are required to comply
with Regulation BI under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Rule 15l-1(a)(1) of Reg
BI requires a broker, dealer, or a natural person associated with a broker or dealer, when
making a recommendation of any securities transaction or investment strategy involving
securities (including account recommendations) to a retail customer, to act in the best
interest of that retail customer at the time the recommendation is made, without placing
3

the financial or other interest of the broker, dealer, or associated person ahead of the
interest of the retail customer.
Reg BI’s Disclosure Obligation, set forth at Exchange Act Rule 15l-1(a)(2)(i), requires
broker-dealers and associated persons to provide retail customers full and fair written
disclosure, prior to or at the time of the recommendation, of all material facts relating to
conflicts of interest that are associated with the recommendation. 3 Reg BI defines a
“conflict of interest” to be an interest that might incline a broker-dealer or an associated
person—consciously or unconsciously—to make a recommendation that is not
disinterested. Reg BI’s Adopting Release provides that broker-dealers and associated
persons must disclose material facts relating to compensation associated with
recommendations to retail customers and related conflicts of interest. This disclosure
should summarize how the broker-dealer and associated persons are compensated for
their recommendations and the conflicts of interest that such compensation creates. This
summary should include the sources and types of compensation received. 4
FINRA Rule 2010 requires that FINRA members observe high standards of commercial
honor and just and equitable principles of trade in the conduct of their business. A
violation of Section 17(a) of the Securities Act or Reg BI is also a violation of FINRA
Rule 2010. In addition, making a material misrepresentation or omitting a material fact to
customers independently violates FINRA Rule 2010, as it is inconsistent with just and
equitable principles of trade.
In the fall of 2020, four registered representatives requested that INI allow them to sell
the Offerings to retail customers.5 The Offerings purportedly provided investors the
opportunity to own interests in pre-IPO companies. The pre-IPO shares were the
Offerings’ sole purported asset.
In October 2020, Arnold approved the Offerings on behalf of INI, and in November
2020, he executed a written agreement with the Issuer under which INI agreed to act as a
placement agent for the Offerings.6 The written agreement between the Issuer and INI
stated that INI was entitled to a ten-percent sales commission and half of any carried
interest collected by the Issuer. 7 Separately, the Issuer and an INI representative agreed
that the Issuer would pay INI an additional five percent in selling compensation, for a
3

Reg BI’s Adopting Release states that a fact is “material” if there is a substantial likelihood that a reasonable retail
customer would consider it important. Regulation Best Interest: The Broker-Dealer Standard of Conduct, Exchange
Act Release No. 86031, 84 FR 33318 at 33347 (July 12, 2019) (“Adopting Release”).
4

Adopting Release at 33363.

5

FINRA has sanctioned three of these representatives for their failure to respond to requests for testimony that were
issued pursuant to FINRA Rule 8210 (each received a bar from association with any FINRA member in all
capacities).
6

The issuer is a non-registered limited liability company that established multiple private funds. Each fund issued
different series of investments offering pre-IPO shares of private companies.
7

Carried interest is a share of profits payable to investment managers rather than investors. Here, the Issuer retained
as carried interest 20 percent of any profits following the IPOs of the private companies.

4

total of 15 percent. Although Arnold was not aware of this agreement for extra
compensation, the firm should have discovered and disclosed it based on the size of the
Issuer’s payments to the firm, which reflected 15 percent in selling compensation.
From December 2020 to May 2021, INI disseminated offering documents to prospective
investors in the Offerings—including a private placement memorandum, series
investment letters, and subscription agreements—that falsely stated that INI was entitled
to only a ten-percent sales commission and omitted its share of half of the carried interest.
Customers who invested in the Offerings then received “welcome letters” from the
Issuer, which repeated the false statement that INI received only a ten-percent
commission and omitted its share of half of the carried interest.
In total, the four representatives recommended and sold the Offerings to 36 retail
customers. The total principal amount of the investments was $2,352,900, and INI
received $116,745 in undisclosed commissions. INI passed along 91 percent of the total
commissions it received in connection with the Offerings to the four representatives and
retained $63,769.60 in commissions and carried interest.
No one associated with INI ever informed customers that the issuer had entered into an
agreement to pay INI 50 percent more in selling compensation than INI had disclosed to
customers. These misrepresentations and omissions regarding the firm’s entitlement to
selling compensation were material and misleading because they gave potential investors
inaccurate information about the firm’s financial incentive to recommend the Offerings,
which was a conflict of interest that could influence the firm’s recommendations.
Therefore, INI violated FINRA Rule 2010, both independently and by virtue of
contravening Section 17(a)(3) of the Securities Act, willfully violated Exchange Act Rule
15l-1(a)(1) by failing to comply with Reg BI’s Disclosure Obligation, and thereby also
violated FINRA Rule 2010.
B.

INI lacked a reasonable basis to recommend the Offerings.

Reg BI’s Care Obligation, set forth at Exchange Act Rule 15l-1(a)(2)(ii), requires brokerdealers and their associated persons to exercise reasonable diligence, care, and skill to,
among other things, understand the potential risks, rewards, and costs associated with a
recommendation. Reg BI’s Adopting Release provides that what constitutes “reasonable
diligence” depends on, among other things, the complexity of, and risks associated with,
the recommended security.8 The Care Obligation requires broker-dealers and their
associated persons to have a reasonable basis to believe that the recommendation could
be in the best interest of at least some retail investors.
When a broker-dealer is engaged in selling a private placement, compliance with the Care
Obligation requires the broker-dealer to conduct a reasonable investigation, or due
diligence, prior to recommending the offerings to its customers. Regulatory Notice 10-22
8

Adopting Release at 33376.

5

provides that such due diligence should include, at a minimum, a reasonable investigation
concerning the issuer and its management, the assets held by or to be acquired by the
issuer, the claims being made, and the intended use of proceeds of the offering. 9
INI did not conduct reasonable due diligence before recommending the Offerings to 36
retail customers who purchased the Offerings, and therefore lacked a reasonable basis for
those recommendations. INI failed to take reasonable steps to verify whether the Issuer
had access to, or possession of, the pre-IPO shares in the companies that were the subject
of the Offerings, even though acquiring an interest in such shares was the sole purpose of
investing in the Offerings. Because investors in the Offerings receive shares in the
companies at issue only after the companies have held IPOs, and many of the companies
at issue have not yet done so, it remains unknown whether the Issuer, in fact, possesses
the pre-IPO shares it purported to sell. Moreover, despite knowing that the Issuer applied
markups to the pre-IPO shares—in other words, the Issuer charged a higher price when
selling the shares to the pre-IPO fund than the Issuer had paid to acquire the shares—INI
did not take reasonable steps to determine the amount of these markups.
As a result, at the time INI recommended the Offerings to its customers, the firm had no
reasonable basis to believe that the Issuer had access to or possession of the pre-IPO
shares identified in the offering documents, or that the Issuer’s prices and markups were
reasonable and properly disclosed. In fact, the Issuer applied markups as high as 39
percent.10
Therefore, INI willfully violated Exchange Act Rule 15l-1(a)(1) by failing to comply
with Reg BI’s Care Obligation, and violated FINRA Rule 2010.
C.

INI failed to implement its Customer Identification Program with respect to
investors in the Offerings.

FINRA Rule 3310(b) requires each member to “[e]stablish and implement policies,
procedures, and internal controls reasonably designed to achieve compliance with the
Bank Secrecy Act [31 U.S.C. 5311, et seq.] and the implementing regulations
thereunder.” The BSA and its implementing regulations require, among other things, that
each broker-dealer establish and maintain a written Customer Identification Program
(CIP) appropriate for the firm’s size and business and that the program contain risk-based
procedures for verifying the identity of each customer to the extent reasonable and

9

Regulatory Notice 23-08 (May 9, 2023) updates and supplements, without altering, the guidance provided in
Regulatory Notice 10-22.
10

On May 13, 2022, the SEC filed a lawsuit in the Southern District of New York against the Issuer and its
principals. Among other things, the SEC alleged that the Issuer committed fraud by charging undisclosed, excessive
markups and not having enough pre-IPO shares to satisfy its sales to investors. On June 14, 2022, the court entered a
stipulation and consent order granting a preliminary injunction and other relief, including appointment of a receiver
for the Issuer. On November 28, 2023, the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the Southern District of New York filed a
criminal case naming principals of the Issuer as defendants in a multi-count indictment including various felonies,
including fraud and conspiracy to obstruct justice.

6

practicable.11 A broker-dealer must obtain certain customer identifying information and
verify the identity of each customer within a reasonable time before or after an account is
opened.12 CIPs must also include procedures for responding to circumstances in which
the broker-dealer cannot form a reasonable belief that it knows the true identity of a
customer, which should include a description of when the broker-dealer should not open
an account and when the broker-dealer should close an account after attempts to verify a
customer’s identity have failed. A violation of Rule 3310 also constitutes a violation of
FINRA Rule 2010.
INI failed to implement its written CIP for more than 20 customers of the four
representatives who sold the Offerings. The firm’s written CIP procedures required that
the firm verify the identity of its customers and maintain records of any documentation
used to verify customers’ identities. Typically, INI used new account forms to collect
sufficient information to verify customers’ identities and customer profile information.
For customer verification, these forms required customers to provide, among other things,
their social security number, personal identification such as a driver’s license or passport,
and address. However, when the four representatives joined INI from another brokerdealer, over 20 customer accounts were transferred from the prior firm to INI based
solely on a one-page authorization form. That form was executed by the customers and
sent to INI’s clearing firm, the same clearing firm utilized by the representatives’ former
firm. The form contained no identifying information for the customers beyond their name
and account number at their prior firm. Based on this information alone, INI could not
verify the customers’ identities. Although INI reminded the four representatives to ensure
that their customers ultimately completed new account forms, the firm did not impose a
deadline or follow up when customers failed to complete these forms. Nor did the firm
take any steps in the meantime to otherwise ensure that these customers produced
sufficient information to allow INI to verify their identities.
As a result, at the time they invested in the Offerings, only 13 of the 36 investors had
completed new account forms or otherwise provided information from which INI could
verify their identities. Six investors did not complete new account forms or otherwise
provide such information to INI until FINRA made a request for this information years
after the Offerings closed, and the firm was never able to produce new account forms or
otherwise demonstrate receipt of this information for three other investors.
By failing to implement a CIP that was reasonably designed to achieve compliance with
the BSA and its implementing regulations, INI violated FINRA Rules 3310(b) and 2010.
D.

INI failed to make required filings pursuant to FINRA Rule 5123.

FINRA Rule 5123 requires that each member that sells a security in a non-public offering
in reliance on an available exemption from registration under the Securities Act:
(i) submit to FINRA, or have submitted on its behalf, a copy of any private placement
11

See 31 U.S.C. § 5318(l) and 31 C.F.R. § 1023.220.

12

See 31 C.F.R. § 1023.220(a)(2)(i) and § 1023.220(a)(2)(ii).

7

memorandum, term sheet or other offering document, used in connection with such sale
within 15 calendar days of the date of first sale; or (ii) notify FINRA that no such
offering documents were used. Rule 5123 was implemented to, as described in FINRA
Regulatory Notice 12-40, “enhance oversight and investor protection” and provide “more
timely and complete information about the private placement activities of firms on behalf
of other issuers.” A violation of FINRA Rule 5123 is also a violation of FINRA Rule
2010.
From December 2020 to May 2021, INI sold 13 new Offerings to customers, but failed to
file the private placement memorandum and other offering documents with FINRA.
Therefore, INI violated FINRA Rules 5123 and 2010.
E.

INI and Arnold failed to establish, maintain, and enforce a supervisory
system, including written supervisory procedures, reasonably designed to
achieve compliance with Reg BI and FINRA rules relating to (1) the sale of
private placements and (2) identifying and addressing potentially excessive
trading.

Reg BI’s Compliance Obligation, set forth at Exchange Act Rule 15l-1(a)(2)(iv), requires
a broker-dealer to establish, maintain, and enforce written policies and procedures
reasonably designed to achieve compliance with Reg BI, including the Disclosure and
Care Obligations. Reg BI’s Adopting Release provides that broker-dealers should
consider the nature of that firm’s operations and how to design such policies and
procedures to prevent violations from occurring, detect violations that have occurred, and
to correct promptly any violations that have occurred. 13
FINRA Rule 3110(a) requires that FINRA members “establish and maintain a system to
supervise the activities of each associated person that is reasonably designed to achieve
compliance with applicable securities laws and regulations, and with applicable FINRA
rules.” FINRA Rule 3110(b) requires that each FINRA member “establish, maintain, and
enforce written procedures to supervise the types of business in which it engages and the
activities of its associated persons that are reasonably designed to achieve compliance
with the applicable securities laws and regulations, and with applicable FINRA rules.”
INI and Arnold failed to reasonably supervise the Offerings.
From at least February 2019 to the present, Arnold has served as INI’s President, CEO,
and CCO. Throughout this period, the firm’s WSPs have tasked Arnold with
responsibility for “the overall supervision of the firm’s operation and the maintenance of
its supervisory system,” including maintaining and updating the firm’s WSPs. Between
October 2020 and May 2021, when the firm sold the Offerings, Arnold failed to update
INI’s WSPs to include any written policies and procedures regarding private placements.
As a result, INI’s WSPs did not designate a supervisor with responsibility for supervising
13

Adopting Release at 33397.

8

private placement offerings, nor did the WSPs establish guidelines and processes for: (1)
private placement due diligence and evidencing compliance with its due diligence
obligations; (2) approval of private placement offerings; (3) compliance with private
placement filing requirements under FINRA Rule 5123; or (4) compliance with Reg BI’s
Care Obligation with respect to recommendations of the Offerings.
INI’s system for supervising the Offerings was also not reasonably designed to achieve
compliance with Reg BI’s Care Obligation or FINRA Rules. In practice, between
October 2020 and May 2021, Arnold was responsible for all aspects of private placement
supervision. As noted above, under Regulatory Notice 10-22, firms must conduct
reasonable due diligence before selling private offerings to customers to ensure that firm
representatives have a reasonable basis to recommend the offerings. Arnold approved the
Offerings for sale by the four representatives without conducting reasonable due
diligence on the Offerings or the Issuer or documenting any due diligence he conducted.
As described above, among other things, Arnold failed to determine whether the Issuer
possessed the pre-IPO shares, failed to determine the amount of the Issuer’s markups,
failed to take reasonable steps to confirm that the offering documents conveyed accurate
information to potential investors regarding the Issuer’s markups and INI’s entitlement to
selling compensation, and failed to ensure that the firm made required filings with
FINRA pursuant to Rule 5123. Moreover, Arnold took no steps to review
recommendations of the Offerings to verify that those recommendations were consistent
with customers’ investment profiles and in the customers’ best interest—indeed, as
explained above, INI did not collect any customer profile information for 13 of the 36
investors in the Offerings.
Therefore, INI willfully violated Exchange Act Rule 15l-1(a)(1) by virtue of violating
Reg BI’s Compliance Obligation, set forth at Exchange Act Rule 15l-1(a)(2)(iv), and INI
and Arnold violated FINRA Rules 3110 and 2010.
INI and Arnold failed to establish, maintain, and enforce a supervisory system,
including WSPs, reasonably designed to identify and address potentially excessive
trading.
As of June 30, 2020, Reg BI’s Care Obligation, set forth at Exchange Act Rule
15l-1(a)(2)(ii), requires broker-dealers and their associated persons to exercise reasonable
diligence, care, and skill to, among other things, have a reasonable basis to believe that a
series of recommended transactions, even if in the retail customer’s best interest when
viewed in isolation, is not excessive and is in the retail customer’s best interest in light of
the retail customer’s investment profile.
Prior to June 30, 2020, FINRA Rule 2111 required members and associated persons to
have a reasonable basis to believe that a recommendation of a transaction or investment
strategy involving a security or securities to any customer is suitable for the customer.
Under Rule 2111 Supplementary Material .05 (Rule 2111.05), members and associated
persons with actual or de facto control over an account were required to have a
reasonable basis for believing that a series of recommended transactions, even if suitable
9

when viewed in isolation, is not excessive and unsuitable for the customer in light of the
customer's investment profile. FINRA Rule 2111 is still in effect, but as of June 30, 2020,
it no longer applies to recommendations that are subject to Reg BI, and the element of
control was removed from the quantitative suitability component.
Rule 2111.05 states that “[n]o single test defines excessive activity, but factors such as
the turnover rate, the cost-to-equity ratio, and the use of in-and-out trading in a
customer's account may provide a basis for a finding that a member or associated person
has violated the quantitative suitability obligation.” Turnover rate represents the number
of times that a portfolio of securities is exchanged for another portfolio of securities. The
cost-to-equity ratio measures the amount an account must appreciate just to cover
commissions and other expenses. In other words, it is the break-even point where a
customer may begin to see a return. A turnover rate above six or a cost-to-equity ratio
above 20 percent generally indicates that an account has been excessively traded.
From at least February 2019 to the present, Arnold has failed to establish WSPs for INI
that provide reasonable guidance for identifying and addressing potentially excessive
trading. INI’s WSPs have therefore not been reasonably designed to achieve compliance
with FINRA Rule 2111 and Reg BI’s Care Obligation as they pertain to excessive
trading. The firm’s WSPs do not provide guidance about how to identify accounts that
are excessively traded. For example, the WSPs do not identify what cost-to-equity ratio
or turnover rate should trigger further review or what steps should be taken after
identifying an account that was being excessively traded. Further, INI has no reports or
alerts designed to identify factors that would indicate excessive trading, such as those that
flag turnover and cost-to-equity ratios. The firm instead has relied primarily on a daily,
manual trade-blotter review, but such review is not reasonably designed to identify
patterns of excessive trading.
Therefore, INI violated Exchange Act Rule 15l-1(a)(1) by virtue of violating Reg BI’s
Compliance Obligation, set forth at Exchange Act Rule 15l-1(a)(2)(iv), and INI and
Arnold violated FINRA Rules 3110 and 2010.
F.

INI and Arnold failed to establish written policies and procedures reasonably
designed to achieve compliance with Reg BI.

From June 30, 2020, to the present, INI and Arnold failed to establish, maintain, and
enforce written policies and procedures reasonably designed to achieve compliance with
Reg BI. Despite awareness of Reg BI’s June 30, 2020, implementation date, Arnold
never updated the firm’s WSPs to include policies or procedures regarding compliance
with Reg BI’s requirements.
Therefore, INI willfully violated Exchange Act Rule 15l-1(a)(1) by failing to comply
with Reg BI’s Compliance Obligation, and INI and Arnold violated FINRA Rules 3110
and 2010.
B.

Respondents also consent to the imposition of the following sanctions:
10

For Investment Network, Inc.:


a censure;



a 60-day suspension from conducting any private placement activities;



a $210,000 fine;



disgorgement of $63,769.60 plus interest as described below; and



an undertaking requiring certification of the firm’s supervisory system, as more
fully set forth below.
Within 60 days of the date of the notice of acceptance of this AWC, a member of
INI’s senior management who is a registered principal of the firm shall certify in
writing that as of the date of the certification, the firm has remediated the issues
identified in this AWC and implemented a supervisory system, including written
supervisory procedures, reasonably designed to achieve compliance with
Regulation BI regarding the issues identified in this AWC. The certification shall
include a narrative description and supporting exhibits sufficient to demonstrate
Respondent’s remediation and implementation. FINRA staff may request further
evidence of Respondent’s remediation and implementation, and Respondent
agrees to provide such evidence. Respondent shall submit the certification to
Roger Kiley, Senior Counsel, FINRA, 55 West Monroe Street, Suite 2700,
Chicago, IL 60603, with a copy to EnforcementNotice@finra.org. Upon written
request showing good cause, FINRA staff may extend this deadline.

For Gary Arnold:


a three-month suspension from associating with any FINRA member firm in all
principal capacities;



a $10,000 fine; and



a requirement that he requalify as a general securities principal by passing the
requisite examination prior to acting in that capacity with any FINRA member.

Respondents agree to pay the monetary sanctions upon notice that this AWC has been
accepted and that such payments are due and payable. Respondents have submitted
Election of Payment forms showing the methods by which they propose to pay the fines
imposed.
Disgorgement of commissions received is ordered to be paid by Respondent Investment
Network, Inc., to FINRA in the amount of $63,769.60, plus interest at the rate set forth in
Section 6621(a)(2) of the Internal Revenue Code, 26 U.S.C. § 6621 from September 21,
20212, until the date this AWC is accepted by the National Adjudicatory Council (NAC).

11

Respondent Investment Network, Inc. understands that this settlement includes a finding
that it willfully violated Exchange Act Rule 15l-1(a)(1) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 and that under Article III, Section 4 of FINRA’s By-Laws, this makes Respondent
subject to a statutory disqualification with respect to membership.
Respondent Arnold understands that if he is barred or suspended from associating with
any FINRA member in a limited capacity, he becomes subject to a statutory
disqualification as that term is defined in Article III, Section 4 of FINRA’s By-Laws,
incorporating Section 3(a)(39) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Accordingly,
Respondent Arnold may not be associated with any FINRA member in any principal
capacity during the period of the bar or suspension. See FINRA Rules 8310 and 8311.
Furthermore, because Respondent Arnold is subject to a statutory disqualification during
the suspension, if he remains associated with a member firm in a non-suspended capacity,
an application to continue that association may be required.
Respondents specifically and voluntarily waive any right to claim an inability to pay, now
or at any time after the execution of this AWC, the monetary sanctions imposed in this
matter.
The sanctions imposed in this AWC shall be effective on a date set by FINRA.
II.
WAIVER OF PROCEDURAL RIGHTS
Respondents specifically and voluntarily waive the following rights granted under FINRA’s
Code of Procedure:
A.

To have a complaint issued specifying the allegations against them;

B.

To be notified of the complaint and have the opportunity to answer the allegations
in writing;

C.

To defend against the allegations in a disciplinary hearing before a hearing panel,
to have a written record of the hearing made, and to have a written decision
issued; and

D.

To appeal any such decision to the NAC and then to the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission and a U.S. Court of Appeals.

Further, Respondents specifically and voluntarily waive any right to claim bias or prejudgment
of the Chief Legal Officer, the NAC, or any member of the NAC, in connection with such
person’s or body’s participation in discussions regarding the terms and conditions of this AWC,
or other consideration of this AWC, including its acceptance or rejection.
Respondents further specifically and voluntarily waive any right to claim that a person violated
the ex parte prohibitions of FINRA Rule 9143 or the separation of functions prohibitions of
12

FINRA Rule 9144, in connection with such person’s or body’s participation in discussions
regarding the terms and conditions of this AWC, or other consideration of this AWC, including
its acceptance or rejection.
III.
OTHER MATTERS
Respondents understand that:
A.

Submission of this AWC is voluntary and will not resolve this matter unless and
until it has been reviewed and accepted by the NAC, a Review Subcommittee of
the NAC, or the Office of Disciplinary Affairs (ODA), pursuant to FINRA Rule
9216;

B.

If this AWC is not accepted, its submission will not be used as evidence to prove
any of the allegations against Respondents; and

C.

If accepted:

D.

1.

this AWC will become part of Respondents’ permanent disciplinary
record and may be considered in any future action brought by FINRA or
any other regulator against Respondents;

2.

this AWC will be made available through FINRA’s public disclosure
program in accordance with FINRA Rule 8313;

3.

FINRA may make a public announcement concerning this agreement and
its subject matter in accordance with FINRA Rule 8313; and

4.

Respondents may not take any action or make or permit to be made any
public statement, including in regulatory filings or otherwise, denying,
directly or indirectly, any finding in this AWC or create the impression
that the AWC is without factual basis. Respondents may not take any
position in any proceeding brought by or on behalf of FINRA, or to which
FINRA is a party, that is inconsistent with any part of this AWC. Nothing
in this provision affects Respondents’ right to take legal or factual
positions in litigation or other legal proceedings in which FINRA is not a
party. Nothing in this provision affects Respondents’ testimonial
obligations in any litigation or other legal proceedings.

Respondents may attach a corrective action statement to this AWC that is a
statement of demonstrable corrective steps taken to prevent future misconduct.
Respondents understands that they may not deny the charges or make any
statement that is inconsistent with the AWC in this statement. This statement does
not constitute factual or legal findings by FINRA, nor does it reflect the views of
FINRA.
13

The undersigned, on behalf of Respondents, cc1iific:. that a person duly authorized to act on
Respondents' behalf has read and understand:; all ofthe provisions of this A WC and has been
given a full opportunity to ask questions abou1. it: that Respondents have agreed to the AWC's
provisions voluntarily; and that no offer, threat, inducement, or promise of any kind. other than
the te1ms set forth in this A WC and the prospect 01 an)iding the issuance of a complaint. has
been made to induce Respondents to submit this l . . WC.

- ~La&J~

hwcstm1.Jt!z:J·rk, Inc .
Respondent

hint Name'.~ , ~

L. A12.v •~o _

Tittc :~_tt_'(.-:.0....,.V~"Cl-------

-:--~_£~
(}ary A r ~ 7 Respondent

]4

Accepted by FINRA:
Signed on behalf of the
Director of ODA, by delegated authority
October 16, 2024

Date

Roger Kiley
Senior Counsel
FINRA
Department of Enforcement
55 W. Monroe, Suite 2700
Chicago, Illinois 60603
Eric M. Goldstein
Director
FINRA
Department of Enforcement
1700 K Street NW
Washington, DC 20006

15

