FINANCIAL INDUSTRY REGULATORY AUTHORITY
LETTER OF ACCEPTANCE, WAIVER, AND CONSENT
NO. 2022074025801

TO:

Department of Enforcement
Financial Industiy Regulato1y Authority (FINRA)

RE:

Joseph C. Desapio (Respondent)
Fonner General Securities Representative
CRD No. 5837553

Pursuant to FINRA Rule 9216, Respondent Joseph C. Desapio submits this Letter of Acceptance,
Waiver, and Consent (AWC) for the purpose of proposing a settlement of the alleged rnle
violations described below. This AWC is submitted on the condition that, if accepted, FINRA
will not bring any future actions against Respondent alleging violations based on the same
factual findings described in this A WC.

I.
ACCEPTANCE AND CONSENT
A.

Respondent accepts and consents to the following findings by FINRA without admitting
or denying them:
BACKGROUND

Desapio first registered as a General Securities Representative (GS) in August 2010.
From August 2010 to May 2017, Desapio was registered with FINRA as a GS through
various member finns. From May 2017 to July 2022, Desapio was registered as a GS
through Spaiian Capital Securities, LLC (CRD No. 146251).
On July 27, 2022, Spaitan filed a Unifo1m Te1mination Notice for Securities Industiy
Registration (Fo1m U5) te1minating Desapio 's registi·ation through the fnm. The Fonn
U5 stated that an arbiti·ation had been filed against Desapio alleging "that applicant
bonowed money and executed promisso1y note for funds from customer" and that the
" [a]pplicant owes Fi1m $22,992.38." Although Desapio is no longer registered or
associated with a FINRA member fnm, he remains subj ect to FINRA's jurisdiction
pursuant to Aliicle V, Section 4 of FINRA's By-Laws. 1
OVERVIEW

From June 2017 through June 2021 , Desapio recommended quantitatively unsuitable
ti·ades in four accounts held by three customers, one of whom was a senior. By this
conduct, Desapio willfully violated the Best Interest Obligation under Rule 15/-1 of the

1 For more infonnation about the respondent, including prior regulato1y events, visit BrokerCheck® at

www finra.org/brokercheck.

Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (Regulation BI) (for the period June 30, 2020 through
June 2021), and violated FINRA Rule 2111 (for the period June 2017 through June 29,
2020), and FINRA Rule 2010. In addition, Desapio bonowed $20,000 from one of his
customers in September 2019 without Spartan 's prior approval , in violation of FINRA
Rules 3240 and 2010.
FACTS AND VIOLATIVE CONDUCT

This matter originated from FINRA's review of an arbitration statement of claim filed
against Desapio by two of the customers at issue in this AWC alleging sales practice
violations.
Desapio excessively traded four accounts held by three customers.
As of June 30, 2020, broker-dealers and their associated persons are required to comply
with Regulation BI under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Regulation Bi's Best
Interest Obligation requires a broker, dealer, or a natural person associated with a broker
or dealer, when making a recommendation of any securities transaction or investment
strntegy involving securities (including account recommendations) to a retail customer, to
act in the best interest of that retail customer at the time the recommendation is made,
without placing the financial or other interest of the broker, dealer, or associated person
ahead of the interest of the retail customer. Regulation Bi's Care Obligation, set fo1ih at
Exchange Act Rule 151-1 (a)(2)(ii), requires broker-dealers and their associated persons
to exercise reasonable diligence, care, and skill to, among other things, have a reasonable
basis to believe that a series of recommended transactions, even if in the retail customer's
best interest when viewed in isolation, is not excessive and is in the retail customer 's best
interest in light of the retail customer 's investment profile. A violation of Regulation BI
also is a violation of FINRA Rule 2010, which requires associated persons to "observe
high standards of commercial honor and just and equitable principles of trade" in the
conduct of their business.
Prior to June 30, 2020, FINRA Rule 2111 required members and associated persons to
have a reasonable basis to believe that a recommendation of a transaction or investment
strategy involving a security or securities to any customer is suitable for the customer.
FINRA Rule 2111 is still in effect, but as of June 30, 2020, it no longer applies to
recommendations to retail customers that are subject to Reg BI. Under Rule 2111.05(c),
members and associated persons with actual or de facto control over an account were
required to have a reasonable basis for believing that a series of recommended
transactions, even if suitable when viewed in isolation, are not excessive and unsuitable
for the customer in light of the customer's investment profile. A violation of FINRA Rule
2111 also is a violation of FINRA Rule 2010.
No single test defines when trading is excessive, but factors such as the turnover rate and
the cost-to-equity ratio are relevant to detennining whether a member film or associated
person has excessively traded a customer's account. The turnover rate represents the
number of times that a portfolio of securities is exchanged for another po1ifolio of
securities. The cost-to-equity ratio measures the amount an account has to appreciate just
2

to cover commissions and other expenses. In oth er words, it is the break-even point
where a customer may begin to see a return. An annualized turnover rate of six or more
or an annualized cost-to-equity ratio above 20 percent generally indicates that a series of
recommended transactions was excessive.
From June 2017 through June 2021, Desapio engaged in quantitively unsuitable trading
in four accounts of three customers. His customers relied on his advice an d routinely
followed his recommendations and, as a result, Desapio exercised de facto control over
the three customers ' accounts. Desapio's trading resulted in high turnover rates and costto-equity ratios that were well above the traditional guideposts of six and 20 percent,
respectively, as well as significant losses, as set fo1i h below.
1. In October 2018 and September 2019, Customer A opened individual accounts at
Spaiian with Desapio. At the time she began investing with Desapio, Customer A
was a 58-year-old paralegal. Customer A was a conservative investor who was
not interested in high risk or speculative investments and had limited investment
expen ence.
a. From September 2019 to March 2021, Desapio recommended 134 trades
in one of Customer A's accounts, resulting in an annualized turnover rate
of 33 and an annualized cost-to-equity ratio of 145%. Desapio's trading in
this account generated total trading costs of $82,626, including $72,685 in
commissions, and caused $5 1,800 in realized losses.
b. From November 201 8 to August 2020, Desapio recommended 48 trades in
Customer A 's other account, resulting in an annualized turnover rate of 12
and an annualized cost-to-equity ratio of 59% for this account. Desapio 's
trading in this account generated total trading cost of $11,435, including
$8,280 in commissions, and caused $8,193 in realized loss .
2. In Febrnaiy 2019, Desapio became the representative ofrecord for Customer B 's
account. At the time she began investing with Desapio, Customer B was a 57year-old widowed yoga instrnctor. Customer B was a conservative investor, and
her investment objective was capital preservation an d some growth . From
Febrnaiy 2019 to June 2021, Desapio recommended 45 trades in Customer B 's
account resulting in an annualized turnover rate of 8 and an annualized cost-toequity ratio of 44%. Desapio 's trading in this account generated total trading costs
of $14,435 , including $11,055 in commissions, and caused $8,099 in realized
losses.2
3. In May 2017, Customer C opened an account at Spartan with Desapio. At the
time, Customer C was a 71 -year-old insurance agent. According to Customer C's
new account documentation, his investment objective was speculation. From June
2017 through Janua1y 2021, Desapio recommended 131 transactions in Customer
C's account, resulting in an annualized turnover rate of 12 and an annualized cost2 Customers A and B filed an arbitration against Spartan and Desapio alleging sales practice violations. Spartan

settled with the tv.•o customers.

3

to-equity ratio of 72%. Desapio 's trading in Customer C 's account generated total
trading costs of $27,527, including $19,778 in commissions, and caused $24,454
in realized losses.
Desapio's trading in the four customer accounts was excessive, unsuitable, and not in the
best interest of these three customers given their investment profiles.
Therefore, Desapio willfully violated Exchange Act Rule 15/-1 and violated FINRA Rule
2111 and FINRA Rule 2010.
Desapio borrowed money from a customer.

FINRA Rule 3240(a) prohibits registered representatives from bon owing from or lending
money to a customer unless (1) their member fom employer has written procedures that
pe1mit the bonowing and lending of money between registered representatives and
customers, and (2) the bonowing or lending aiTangement meets at least one of the five
circumstances specified in the mle. Even if these requirements ai·e satisfied, Rule 3240(b)
requires registered representatives to seek and obtain written approval from their member
fom employer prior to entering into the bon owing or lending airnngement, unless the
film's procedures provide othe1wise. A violation ofFINRA Rule 3240 is also a violation
ofFINRA Rule 2010.
At all relevant times, Spartan's written superviso1y procedures generally prohibited its
registered representatives from entering into bonowing or lending aiTangements with
fom customers. However, Spaiian pennitted loans when "someone (or an entity) ... has
a personal relationship with the RR and the lending aiTangement ai·ises from the personal
relationship rather than an RR/customer relationship." However, "[a]ny proposed loan
with the RR's customer (other than a loan with a fainily member or financial
institution ...) requires the PRIOR review and approval by Compliance."
fu September 2019, Desapio bon owed $20,000 from Customer A, with whom he had a
prior personal non-fainilial relationship. 3

Desapio did not provide prior notice to or obtain written approval from Spaiian for the
loan from Customer A.
Therefore, Desapio violated FINRA Rules 3240 and 2010.
B.

Respondent also consents to the imposition of the following sanctions:
•

a 15-month suspension from associating with any FINRA member in all
capacities.

3 Customer A recovered funds from Spartan in connection with Customer A's settlement with the fum.

4

Respondent has submitted a statement of financial condition and demonstrnted an
inability to pay. In light of Respondent's financial status, no monetaiy sanctions have
been imposed.
Respondent understan ds that if he is baiTed or suspended from associating with any
FINRA member, he becomes subject to a statuto1y disqualification as that te1m is defined
in Aliicle III, Section 4 of FINRA's By-Laws, incorporating Section 3(a)(39) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Accordingly, he may not be associated with any
FINRA member in any capacity, including clerical or ministerial functions, during the
period of the bar or suspension. See FINRA Rules 83 10 and 83 11.
Respondent understan ds th at this settlement includes a finding that he willfully violated
Rule 15/-1 of th e Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and that under Ali icle III, Section 4 of
FINRA's By-Laws, this makes hirn subject to a statuto1y disqualification with respect to
association with a member.
The sanctions imposed in this A WC shall be effective on a date set by FINRA.
II.

WAIVER OF PROCEDURAL RIGHTS
Respondent specifically and voluntai·ily waives the following rights granted under FINRA's
Code of Procedure:
A.

To have a complaint issued specifying the allegations against him;

B.

To be notified of the complaint and have the oppo1iunity to answer the allegations
in writing;

C.

To defend against the allegations in a disciplinaiy hearing before a heai·ing panel,
to have a written record of the hearing made, and to have a written decision
issued; and

D.

To appeal any such decision to the N ational Adjudicato1y Council (NAC) and
th en to th e U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission and a U.S. Court of
Appeals.

Fmiher, Respondent specifically and voluntai·ily waives any right to claim bias or prejudgment
of th e Chief Legal Officer, the NAC, or any member of the NAC, in connection with such
person 's or body's pa1i icipation in discussions regarding the tenns and conditions of this AWC,
or other consideration of this A WC, including its acceptan ce or rejection.
Respondent fmi her specifically and voluntarily waives any right to claim that a person violated
th e ex pait e prohibitions of FINRA Rule 9143 or the sepai·ation of functions prohibitions of
FINRA Rule 9144, in connection with such person 's or body's paiiicipation in discussions

5

regarding the ten ns and conditions of this AWC, or other consideration of this A WC, including
its acceptan ce or rejection.
Ill.

OTHER MATTERS
Respondent understan ds th at:
A.

Submission of this AWC is voluntaiy an d will not resolve this matter unless and
until it has been reviewed an d accepted by the NAC, a Review Subcommittee of
the NAC, or the Office of Disciplina1y Affairs (ODA), pursuant to FINRA Rule
9216;

B.

If this AWC is not accepted, its submission will not be used as evidence to prove
any of the allegations against Respondent; and

C.

If accepted:

D.

1.

this AWC will become pait of Respondent's pen nanent disciplinaiy
record and may be considered in any future action brought by FINRA or
any other regulator against Respondent;

2.

this AWC will be made available through FINRA's public disclosure
prograin in accordan ce with FINRA Rule 8313;

3.

FINRA may make a public announcement concerning this agreement and
its subject matter in accordance with FINRA Rule 8313; and

4.

Respondent may not take any action or make or pennit to be made any
public statement, including in regulato1y filings or othe1wise, denying,
directly or indirectly, any finding in this AWC or create the impression
th at th e A WC is without factual basis. Respondent may not take any
position in any proceeding brought by or on behalf of FINRA, or to which
FINRA is a pai·ty, th at is inconsistent with any pait of this AWC. Nothing
in this provision affects Respondent's right to take legal or factual
positions in litigation or other legal proceedings in which FINRA is not a
patty. Nothing in this provision affects Respondent's testimonial
obligations in any litigation or other legal proceedings.

Respondent may attach a con ective action statement to this AWC that is a
statement of demonstrable con ective steps taken to prevent future Inisconduct.
Respondent understands that he may not deny the chai·ges or make any statement
th at is inconsistent with the A WC in this statement. This statement does not
constitute factual or legal findings by FINRA, nor does it reflect the views of
FINRA.

6

Respondent certifies that he has read and understands all of the provisions of this AWC and has
been given a full opportunity to ask questions about it; Respondent understands and
acknowledges that FINRA does not represent or advise him and Respondent cannot rely on
FINRA for legal advice. Respondent has agreed to the AWC's provisions voluntarily; and no
offer, threat, inducement, or promise of any kind, other than the te1ms set fo1ih in this AWC and
th e prospect of avoiding the issuance of a complaint, has been made to induce him to submit this
AWC.
February 22, 2024

Date

Joseph C. Desapio
Respondent

Accepted by FINRA:
Signed on behalf of the
Director of ODA, by delegated authority
Ma rch 8 , 2024

Date

Alyssa Braver
Counsel
FINRA
Department of Enforcement
10 Harborside Plaza
3 Second Street, Suite 900
Jersey City, New Jersey 07302

7

