FINANCIAL INDUSTRY REGULATORY AUTHORITY
LETTER OF ACCEPTANCE, WAIVER, AND CONSENT

NO.2022076491301
TO:

Department of Enforcement
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA)

RE:

Christopher Reynolds (Respondent)
Former Investment Company and Variable Contracts Products Representative
CRD No. 5976029

Pursuant to FINRA Rule 9216, Respondent Christopher Reynolds submits this Letter of
Acceptance, Waiver, and Consent (AWC) for the purpose of proposing a settlement of the
alleged rule violations described below. This A WC is submitted on the condition that, if
accepted, FINRA will not bring any future actions against Respondent alleging violations based
on the same factual findings described in this AWC.

I.
ACCEPTANCE AND CONSENT

A.

Respondent accepts and consents to the following findings by FINRA without admitting
or denying them:
BACKGROUND

Reynolds entered the securities industry in 2011. Between September 2021 and January
24, 2023, Reynolds was registered as an Investment Company and Variable Contracts
Products Representative through an association with Pruco Securities, LLC (CRD No.
5685). On January 24, 2023; Pruco filed a Uniform Termination Notice for Securities
Industry Registration (Form US), disclosing that it had discharged Reynolds because he
"submitted non-genuine client signatures on multiple applications; with the intent to
evade suitability review, failed to disclose transactions as replacements; and used his
personal email address to transmit client documents."
Although Reynolds is not currently associated with a FINRA member, he remains subject
to FINRA'sjurisdiction pursuant to Article V, Section 4 ofFINRA's By-Laws. 1
OVERVIEW

Between September 2021 and January 2023~Reynolds forged the signatures of three
customers on 11 documents, including documents concerning withdrawals or surrenders
of annuities in violation ofFINRA Rule 2010. Additionally, by forging customers'
signatures, Reynolds caused his member firm employer, Pruco, to maintain inaccurate
books and records, in violation ofFINRA Rules 4511 and 2010.
1

For more infonnation about the respondent, visit BrokerCheck® at www.finra.org/brokercheck.

Furthermore, between September 2021 and January 2023, Reynolds recommended that
four customers make annuity withdrawals or surrenders and reinvest the proceeds in a
registered index-linked annuity without having a reasonable basis to believe those
transactions were in his customers' best interests. Therefore, Reynolds willfully violated
Rule 15/-1 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (Regulation BI or Reg Bl) and
violated FINRA Rule 20 l 0.
Additionally, Reynolds used his personal email account and cell phone to exchange
securities-related communications with firm customers. In so doing, he caused his firm to
fail to retain the emails and text messages as part of its books and records, in violation of
FINRA Rules 4511 and 2010.
FACTS AND VIOLATIVE CONDUCT

This matter originated from a regulatory tip made to FINRA.
Reynolds forged customer signatures.

FINRA Rule 2010 requires an associated person "to observe high standards of
commercial honor and just and equitable principles of trade" in the conduct of his or her
business. Forgery occurs when one person signs another person's name or initials on a
document without the other person's prior permission. Forgery is a violation of FINRA
Rule 2010.
FINRA Rule 4511 requires members to "make and preserve books and records as
required under the FINRA rules, the Exchange Act and the applicable Exchange Act
rules:~ Exchange Act Rule 17a-3(a)(l 7) requires firms to maintain records of brokerage
accounts. Inherent in the obligation to make and preserve books and records is the
requirement that they be accurate. A registered representative who forges firm records
causes the firm to maintain inaccurate records and, thereby, violates FINRA Rule 4511.
A violation of FINRA Rule 4511 is also a violation ofFINRA Rule 2010.
Between September 2021 and January 2023~Reynolds, without having the customers'
permission to do so, electronically signed or hand signed customers' names on hard copy
documents for three customers on 11 account documents. These account documents
included transfer of assets forms and 1035 exchange/rollover/transfer forms and were
required books and records of the firm. For two of these customers, Reynolds signed the
customers' names on withdrawal forms without the customers' permission or
authorization for the withdrawal or surrender. 2

2

A surrender is when an investor withdraws funds from an annuity during an initial pre-set number of years,
incurring a fee.

2

By forging customer signatures, Reynolds violated FINRA Rule 2010. By causing his
member firm to maintain inaccurate books and records, Reynolds violated FINRA Rules
4511 and 2010.
Reynolds made recommendations that were not in his customers' best interest.

As of June 30, 2020, broker-dealers and their associated persons are required to comply
with Regulation BI under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Rule 15/-l(a)(l) of Reg
BI requires a broker, dealer, or a natural person associated with a broker or dealer, when
making a recommendation of any securities transaction or investment strategy involving
securities (including account recommendations) to a retail customer, to act in the best
interest of that retail customer at the time the recommendation is made, without placing
the financial or other interest of the broker, dealer, or associated person ahead of the
interest of the retail customer. Reg Bi's Care Obligation, set forth at Exchange Act Rule
15/-l(a)(2)(ii), requires broker-dealers and their associated persons to exercise reasonable
diligence, care, and skill to, among other things, understand the potential risks, rewards,
and costs associated with a recommendation. Reg Bi's Adopting Release provides that
what constitutes "reasonable diligence" depends on, among other things, the complexity
of, and risks associated with, the recommended security. 3 The Care Obligation requires
broker-dealers and their associated persons to have a reasonable basis to believe that the
recommendation could be in the best interest of at least some retail investors.
Violations of Reg BI also are violations ofFINRA Rule 2010.
Between September 2021 and January 2023, Reynolds recommended a registered indexlinked annuity to four firm customers without having a reasonable basis to believe the
investments were in the customers' best interests. Specifically, Reynolds recommended
his customers surrender their existing annuities, or where the surrender period had ended,
make total withdrawals from their existing annuities, directly with the issuers. Reynolds
then recommended that the customers use the proceeds of the liquidations to purchase
units of a registered index-linked annuity product. Reynolds' customers incurred
penalties such as surrender charges, the imposition of new, lengthier surrender periods,
and tax consequences. 4 These tax consequences could have been avoided if Reynolds
recommended 1035 exchanges, 5 as opposed to recommending full withdrawals or
surrenders and then moving the money into the new product. Reynolds also did not
conduct a comparative analysis of the advantages and disadvantages of the existing
annuities and the new registered index-linked annuity or make a determination that the
customers would benefit from the new products. Reynolds thus failed to consider whether

3 Regulation Best Interest: The Broker-Dea/er Standard ofConduct, Exchange Act Release No. 86031, 84 FR 333 I 8

at 33376 (July 12, 2019).
4 Proco, after discovering Reynolds' misconduct, either reversed or stopped the customers' transactions or, when

that was not possible, paid the customers restitution.
s A I035 exchange is a provision in the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) code allowing for a tax-free transfer of an
existing annuity contract, life insurance policy, long-term care product, or endowment for another of like kind.

3

the purchases were in the customers' best interest in light of the disadvantages of giving
up the prior annuity contracts.
Overall, Reynolds' recommendations caused the customers to incur over $32,000 in
surrender fees, in addition to adverse tax consequences. By recommending these
transactions without having a reasonable basis to conclude that they were in the
customers' best interest, Reynolds willfully violated Exchange Act Rule 151-1 and
violated FINRA Rule 2010.
Reynolds used his personal email and text messages to communicate with customers.
Section 17(a) of the Exchange Act and Rule 17a-4 thereunder require member firms to
preserve, for a period of not less than three years, "[o ]riginals of all communications
received and copies of all communications sent by the member .. . (including inter-office
memoranda and communications) relating to its business as such." Accordingly, member
firms are required to maintain records of business-related electronic communications,
including emails and text messages with customers, and such records are required to be
accurate. An individual violates FINRA Rules 4511 and 2010 when he causes a firm to
fail to make or preserve accurate books and records.
From September 2021 to January 2023, Reynolds used his personal email account to
communicate with firm customers about securities transactions and used text messaging
on his personal cell phone to communicate with at least one of his customers about
securities-related matters, including about the customer's annuity holdings. Reynolds did
not forward his emails or text messages to Proco for review or retention. Proco' s
electronic communications policy required that all outgoing emails to customers were to
be sent via Pruco's approved email system, and that these emails were to be subject to
supervisory review by a registered principal or company-approved email filtering system.
Similarly, all text messages were to be sent through Pruco's approved texting application.
As a result, Reynolds caused Proco to fail to maintain those communications, as it was
required to do under the Exchange Act and FINRA rules. Therefore, Reynolds separately
violated FINRA Rules 4511 and 2010.
B.

Respondent also consents to the imposition of the following sanctions:
■

a bar from associating with any FINRA member in all capacities.

Respondent understands that if he is barred or suspended from associating with any
FINRA member, he becomes subject to a statutory disqualification as that term is defined
in Article III, Section 4 of FINRA's By-Laws, incorporating Section 3(a)(39) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Accordingly, he may not be associated with any
FINRA member in any capacity, including clerical or ministerial functions, during the
period of the bar or suspension. See FINRA Rules 8310 and 8311.
Respondent understands that this settlement includes a finding that he willfully violated
Rule 151-1 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and that under Article III, Section 4 of

4

FINRA's By-Laws, this makes him subject to a statutory disqualification with respect to
association with a member.
The sanctions imposed in this A WC shall be effective on a date set by FINRA. A bar or
expulsion shall become effective upon approval or acceptance of this A WC.

II.

WAIVER OF PROCEDURAL RIGHTS
Respondent specifically and voluntarily waives the following rights granted under FINRA's
Code of Procedure:
A.

To have a complaint issued specifying the allegations against him;

B.

To be notified of the complaint and have the opportunity to answer the allegations
in writing;

C.

To defend against the allegations in a disciplinary hearing before a hearing panel,
to have a written record of the hearing made, and to have a written decision
issued; and

D.

To appeal any such decision to the National Adjudicatory Council (NAC) and
then to the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission and a U.S. Court of
Appeals.

Further, Respondent specifically and voluntarily waives any right to claim bias or prejudgment
of the Chief Legal Officer, the NAC, or any member of the NAC, in connection with such
person's or body's participation in discussions regarding the terms and conditions of this AWC,
or other consideration of this A WC, including its acceptance or rejection.
Respondent further specifically and voluntarily waives any right to claim that a person violated
the ex parte prohibitions of FINRA Rule 9143 or the separation of functions prohibitions of
FINRA Rule 9144, in connection with such person's or body's participation in discussions
regarding the terms and conditions of this A WC, or other consideration of this A WC, including
its acceptance or rejection.
III.

OTHER MATTERS
Respondent understands that:
A.

Submission of this AWC is voluntary and will not resolve this matter unless and
until it has been reviewed and accepted by the NAC, a Review Subcommittee of
the NAC, or the Office of Disciplinary Affairs (ODA), pursuant to FINRA Rule
9216;

5

B.

If this AWC is not accepted, its submission will not be used as evidence to prove
any of the allegations against Respondent; and

C.

If accepted:
1.

this AWC will become part of Respondent's permanent disciplinary
record and may be considered in any future action brought by FINRA or
any other regulator against Respondent;

2.

this AWC will be made available through FINRA's public disclosure
program in accordance with FINRA Rule 8313;

3.

FINRA may make a public announcement concerning this agreement and
its subject matter in accordance with FINRA Rule 8313; and

4.

Respondent may not take any action or make or permit to be made any
public statement, including in regulatory filings or otherwise, denying,
directly or indirectly, any finding in this AWC or create the impression
that the AWC is without factual basis. Respondent may not take any
position in any proceeding brought by or on behalf of FINRA, or to which
FINRA is a party, that is inconsistent with any part of this AWC. Nothing
in this provision affects Respondent's right to take legal or factual
positions in litigation or other legal proceedings in which FINRA is not a
party. Nothing in this provision affects Respondent's testimonial
obligations in any litigation or other legal proceedings.

Respondent certifies that he has read and understands all of the provisions of this AWC and has
been given a full opportunity to ask questions about it; Respondent understands and
acknowledges that FINRA does not represent or advise him and Respondent cannot rely on
FINRA for legal advice. Respondent has agreed to the AWC' s provisions voluntarily; and no
offer, threat, inducement, or promise of any kind, other than the terms set forth in this AWC and
the prospect of avoiding the issuance of a complaint. has been made to induce him to submit this
AWC.

1/r/J/z(
~,

Date

~~
Respondent
/~

6

Accepted by FINRA:
Signed on behalf of the
Director of ODA, by delegated authority
August 16, 2024
Date

Alyssa Braver
Counsel
FINRA
Department of Enforcement
200 Liberty Street
New York, NY 10281

7

