l
FINANCIAL INDUSTRY REGULATORY AUTHORITY
LETTER OF ACCEPTANCE, WAIYER, AND CONSENT
NO. 2022076459305

TO:

Department of Enforcement
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA)

RE:

Nicholas Michael Caruso (Respondent)
Fonner General Securities Representative
CRD No. 7301382

Pursuant to FINRA Rule 9216, Respondent Nicholas Michael Caruso submits this Letter of
Acceptance, Waiver, and Consent (AWC) for the purpose of proposing a settlement of the
alleged rule violations described below. This AWC is submitted on the condition that, if
accepted, FINRA will not bring any future actions against Respondent alleging violations based
on the same factual findings described in this AWC.
I.
ACCEPTANCE AND CONSENT
A.

Respondent accepts and consents to the following findings by FINRA without admitting
or denying them:
BACKGROUND

Caruso first registered with FINRA on May 20, 2022, as a General Securities
Representative (GS) through an association with Monmouth Capital Management LLC
(CRD No. 290248). On June 5, 2023, Monmouth filed a Fonn U5 stating that Caruso
voluntarily tenninated his association with the finn.
On June 5, 2023, Caruso registered with FINRA as a GS through another member finn.
On August 17, 2023, that member finn filed a Fonn U5 stating that Caruso voluntarily
tenninated his association with the finn as of that date.
Caruso is not currently registered or associated with any FINRA member finn. However,
he remains subject to FINRA' s jurisdiction pursuant to Article V, Section 4 of
FINRA's By-Laws. 1
OVERVIEW

Between September 2022 and May 2023, while associated with Monmouth2, Caruso
willfully violated the Best Interest Obligation under Rule 15/-1 of the Securities
1 For more information about the respondent, visit BrokerCheck® at www.finra.org/brokercheck.

2 On July 6, 2023, FINRA expelled Monmouth for churning and excessively trading customer accounts and failing

to reasonably supervise its representatives' trading, among other misconduct.

l
Exchange Act of 1934 and violated FINRA Rule 20 IO by recommending a series of
transactions in the accounts of two retail customers that was excessive in light of their
investment profiles and therefore was not in either customer's best interest.

FACTS AND VIOLATIVE CONDUCT
This matter originated from a customer complaint made to FINRA.
As of June 30, 2020, broker-dealers and their associated persons are required to comply
with Regulation Best Interest under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Reg Bi's Best
Interest Obligation requires a broker, dealer, or a natural person associated with a broker
or dealer, when making a recommendation of any securities transaction or investment
strategy involving securities (including account recommendations) to a retail customer, to
act in the best interest of that retail customer at the time the recommendation is made,
without placing the financial or other interest of the broker, dealer, or associated person
ahead of the interest of the retail customer. Reg Bi's Care Obligation, set forth at
Exchange Act Rule 15/-1 (a)(2)(ii), requires broker-dealers and their associated persons to
exercise reasonable diligence, care, and skill to, among other things, have a reasonable
basis to believe that a series of recommended transactions, even if in the retail customer's
· best interest when viewed in isolation, is not excessive and is in the retail customer's best
interest in light of the retail customer's investment profile. A violation of Reg BI also is a
violation ofFINRA Rule 2010, which requires associated persons to "observe high
standards of commercial honor and just and equitable principles of trade" in the conduct
of their business.
No single test defines when trading is excessive, but factors such as the turnover rate and
the cost-to-equity ratio are relevant to determining whether a member firm or associated
person has excessively traded a customer's account. The turnover rate represents the
number of times that a portfolio of securities is exchanged for another portfolio of
securities. The cost-to-equity ratio measures the amount an account must appreciate just
to cover commissions and other expenses. In other words, it is the break-even point
where a customer may begin to see a return. A turnover rate of six or a cost-to-equity
ratio above 20 percent generally indicates that a series of recommended transactions was
excessive.
Caruso recommended to two of his retail customers (Customers A and B) a series of
transactions that was excessive in light of each customer's investment profile. In so
doing, Caruso placed his and Monmouth's interests ahead of the interests of both
customers. At the time of the trading, the customers were in their early sixties, and each
had an investment profile reflecting an income of between $100,000 and $200,000 and a
liquid net worth of between $200,000 and $500,000. Caruso's recommendations for both
customers involved a pattern of in-and-out, short-term trading, and Caruso failed to
consider the cumulative costs of his trading.

2

Customer A
23 C
ffected 20 trades in Customer A, s
Between November 2022 and May 20 ' ~so e
.
f exceeding 49
account. Collectively, these trades resulted m a cost-to-equity ra to
re than 49
t-meaning that Customer A's account would have had to grow by mo f9 59
::::~t during the seven-month periodjusbt tlo breakd ~venth_sanpedn~ot~:::prap:;ma'«:I~
hc
A ' average account a ance urmg t
ca:~:~~ect:d the purchase of approximate~y $146,000 in securi~ies. Customer
1
A l~st approximately $4,500 during this period and paid more than $7,300 m
commissions and trade costs.

f 't;~g

CustomerB
Between September 2022 and May 2023, Caruso effected ~2 ~es in Cu~omer B's
account. Collectively, these trades resulted in a cost-to-equity ratio exceeding 30_perce!'1t,
and a turnover rate of 6.56. Although Customer B's average account balanc:e dunng thts
period was approximately $22,200, Caruso eff~cted the purchase o~ appCC?xtm~tely
$145,800 in securities. Customer B lost approximately $15,800 dunng this penod and
paid more than $6,800 in commissions and trade costs.
By engaging in excessive trading in two customer accounts, Caruso willfully violated
Exchange Act Rule 15/-1 and violated FINRA Rule 2010.
B.

Respondent also consents to the imposition of the following sanctions :
•

a three-month suspension from associating with any FINRA member in all
capacities.

Respondent has submitted a statement of financial condition and demonstrated an
inability to pay. In light of Respondent' s financial status, no monetary sanctions have
been imposed.
Respondent understands that if he is barred or suspended from associating with any
FINRA member, he becomes subject to a statutory disqualification as that term is defined
in Article III, Section 4 ofFINRA's By-Laws, incorporating Section 3(a)(39) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Accordingly, he may not be associated with any
FINRA member in any capacity, including clerical or ministerial functions , during the
period of the bar or suspension. See FINRA Rules 8310 and 8311.
Respondent understands that this settlement includes a finding that he willfully violated
Rule 15/-1 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and that under Article III, Section 4 of
FlNR:"-'.s By-!--aws, this makes him subject to a statutory disqualification with respect to
association with a member.
The sanctions imposed in this A WC shall be effective on a date set by FINRA.

3

L_

■

II.

WAIVER OF PROCEDURAL RIGHTS
Respondent specifically and voluntarily waives the following rights granted under FINRA's
Code of Procedure:
A.

To have a complaint issued specifying the allegations against him;

B.

To be notified of the complaint and have the opportunity to answer the allegations
in writing;

C.

To defend against the allegations in a disciplinary hearing before a hearing panel,
to have a written record of the hearing made, and to have a written decision
issued; and

D.

To appeal any such decision to the National Adjudicatory Council (NAC) and
then to the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission and a U.S. Court of
Appeals.

Further, Respondent specifically and voluntarily waives any right to claim bias or prejudgment
of the Chief Legal Officer, the NAC, or any member of the NAC, in connection with such
person's or body's participation in discussions regarding the terms and conditions of this AWC,
or other consideration of this AWC, including its acceptance or rejection.
Respondent further specifically and voluntarily waives any right to claim that a person violated
the ex parte prohibitions ofFINRA Rule 9143 or the separation of functions prohibitions of
FINRA Rule 9144, in connection with such person's or body's participation in discussions
regarding the terms and conditions of this AWC, or other consideration of this AWC, including
its acceptance or rejection.
III.

OTHER MATTERS
Respondent understands that:
A.

Submission of this AWC is voluntary and will not resolve this matter unless and
until it has been reviewed and accepted by the NAC, a Review Subcommittee of
the NAC, or the Office of Disciplinary Affairs (ODA), pursuant to FINRA Rule
9216;

B.

If this AWC is not accepted, its submission will not be used as evidence to prove
any of the allegations against Respondent; and

4

C.

D.

If accepted:
1.

this AWC will become part of Respondent's permanent disciplinary
record and may be considered in any future action brought by FINRA or
any other regulator against Respondent;

2.

this AWC will be made available through FINRA's public disclosure
program in accordance with FINRA Rule 8313;

3.

FINRA may make a public announcement concerning this agreement and
its subject matter in accordance with FINRA Rule 8313; and

4.

Respondent may not take any action or make or permit to be made any
public statement, including in regulatory·filings or otherwise, denying,
directly or indirectly, any finding in this AWC or create the impression
that the AWC is without factual basis. Respondent may not take any
position in any proceeding brought by or on behalf of FINRA, or to which
FINRA is a party, that is inconsistent with any part of this AWC. Nothing
in this provision affects Respondent's right to take legal or factual
positions in litigation or other legal proceedings in which FINRA is not a
party. Nothing in this provision affects Respondent's testimonial
obligations in any litigation or other legal proceedings.

Respondent may attach a corrective action statement to this AWC that is a
statement of demonstrable corrective steps taken to prevent future misconduct
Respondent understands that he may not deny the charges or make any statement
that is inconsistent with the AWC in this statement. This statement does not
constitute factual or legal findings by FINRA, nor does it reflect the views of
FINRA.

Respondent certifies that he has read and understands all of the provisions of this AWC and has
been given a full opportunity to ask questions about it; Respondent has agreed to the AWC's
provisions voluntarily; and no offer, threat, inducement, or promise of any kind, other than the
terms set forth in this AWC and the prospect of avoiding the issuance of a complaint, has been
made to induce him to submit this AWC.

Date

Nichoi;Michael Caruso
Respondent

5

J

Reviewed by:

Bryan Ward
Counsel for Respondent
Holcomb+ Ward LLP
3455 Peachtree Road NE
Suite 500
Atlanta, GA 30326
Accepted by FINRA:
Signed on behalf of the
Director of ODA, by delegated authority

10/12/2023
Date

Ak'\y SkdtAbby Shechtman
Senior Counsel
FINRA
Department of Enforcement
200 Liberty Street, 1 Ith floor
New York, NY 10281-1003

6

