FINANCIAL INDUSTRY REGULATORY AUTHORITY
LETTER OF ACCEPTANCE, WAIVER, AND CONSENT
NO. 2023080627901
TO:

Department of Enforcement
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA)

RE:

Independent Financial Group, LLC (Respondent)
Member Firm
CRD No. 7717

Pursuant to FINRA Rule 9216, Respondent Independent Financial Group, LLC, submits this
Letter of Acceptance, Waiver, and Consent (AWC) for the purpose of proposing a settlement of
the alleged rule violations described below. This AWC is submitted on the condition that, if
accepted, FINRA will not bring any future actions against Respondent alleging violations based
on the same factual findings described in this AWC.
I.
ACCEPTANCE AND CONSENT
A.

Respondent accepts and consents to the following findings by FINRA without admitting
or denying them:
BACKGROUND
Independent Financial Group, LLC (IFG), became a FINRA member in 1978. The firm is
headquartered in San Diego, California. IFG, which operates an independent contractor
model, offers investment products and services to retail customers. The firm has
approximately 380 branch offices and approximately 650 registered representatives.
In April 2021, IFG entered into an AWC with FINRA through which the firm consented
to findings that from January 2008 through March 2016 it failed to reasonably supervise a
registered representative’s recommendations that his customers unsuitably concentrate
their investments in illiquid alternative investments, in violation of NASD Rule 3010 and
FINRA Rules 3110 and 2010. IFG was censured, fined $200,000, and required to certify
that it had implemented a reasonably designed supervisory system and procedures
concerning alternative investments.1
OVERVIEW
Between July 2020 and December 2022, IFG failed to establish, maintain, and enforce a
supervisory system, including written supervisory procedures (WSPs), reasonably
designed to supervise actively traded accounts and achieve compliance with the Care

1

For more information about the Respondent, including prior regulatory events, visit BrokerCheck® at
www.finra.org/brokercheck.

Obligation of Rule 15l-1 of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934 (Regulation BI or
Reg BI) and FINRA Rule 2111 as they pertain to excessive trading. Therefore, IFG
violated the Compliance Obligation of Reg BI, Exchange Act Rule 15l-1(a)(1), and
FINRA Rules 3110 and 2010. During that same period, IFG also failed to reasonably
supervise a registered representative who excessively traded five customers’ accounts in
violation of FINRA Rules 3110 and 2010.
Additionally, between September 2022 and April 2024, IFG made late and incomplete
responses to a FINRA Rule 8210 request in violation of FINRA Rules 8210 and 2010.
FACTS AND VIOLATIVE CONDUCT
I.

IFG failed to establish, maintain, and enforce a supervisory system
reasonably designed to supervise excessive trading and assure compliance
with Reg BI, and failed to reasonably supervise a registered representative
who excessively traded five customers’ accounts.
A. Applicable rules.

As of June 30, 2020, broker-dealers and their associated persons are required to comply
with Regulation BI under the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934. Rule 15l-1(a)(1) of
Reg BI requires a broker, dealer, or a natural person associated with a broker or dealer,
when making a recommendation of any securities transaction or investment strategy
involving securities (including account recommendations) to a retail customer, to act in
the best interest of that retail customer at the time the recommendation is made, without
placing the financial or other interest of the broker, dealer, or associated person ahead of
the interest of the retail customer. Reg BI’s Compliance Obligation, set forth at Exchange
Act Rule 15l-1(a)(2)(iv), requires broker-dealers to establish, maintain, and enforce
written policies and procedures reasonably designed to achieve compliance with Reg BI,
including the Care Obligation. Reg BI’s Adopting Release provides that broker-dealers
should consider the nature of that firm’s operations and how to design such policies and
procedures to prevent violations from occurring, detect violations that have occurred, and
to correct promptly any violations that have occurred.2
FINRA Rule 3110(a) requires a member firm to establish and maintain a system to
supervise the activities of each associated person that is reasonably designed to achieve
compliance with applicable securities laws and regulations, and with applicable FINRA
rules. FINRA Rule 3110(b) requires a member firm to establish, maintain, and enforce
written procedures to supervise the types of business in which it engages and the
activities of its associated persons that are reasonably designed to achieve compliance
with applicable securities laws and regulations, and with applicable FINRA Rules. The
duty to supervise under Rule 3110 also includes the responsibility for firms and their
designated supervisors to reasonably investigate red flags of potential misconduct and to
act upon the results of their investigation.

2

Adopting Release at 33397.

2

A violation of Exchange Act Rule 15l-1(a)(1) and FINRA Rule 3110 also constitutes a
violation of FINRA Rule 2010, which requires that member firms and associated persons
“observe high standards of commercial honor and just and equitable principles of trade”
in the conduct of their business.
Additionally, Reg BI’s Care Obligation, set forth at Exchange Act Rule 15l-1(a)(2)(ii),
requires broker-dealers and their associated persons to exercise reasonable diligence,
care, and skill to, among other things, have a reasonable basis to believe that a series of
recommended transactions, even if in the retail customer’s best interest when viewed in
isolation, is not excessive and is in the retail customer’s best interest in light of the retail
customer’s investment profile. FINRA Rule 2111(a)3 requires member firms and
associated persons to have a reasonable basis to believe that a recommended transaction
or investment strategy involving a security or securities is suitable for the customer.
Under FINRA Rule 2111 Supplementary Material .05(c), members and associated
persons are required to have a reasonable basis for believing that a series of
recommended transactions, even if suitable when viewed in isolation, are not excessive
and unsuitable for the customer in light of the customer’s investment profile. No single
test defines when trading is excessive, but factors such as the turnover rate, the cost-toequity ratio, and the use of in-and-out trading in a customer’s account are relevant to
determining whether a member firm or associated person has excessively traded a
customer’s account in violation of Reg BI or FINRA Rule 2111. A turnover rate of six or
a cost-to-equity ratio above 20 percent generally indicates that a series of recommended
transactions was excessive and not in the retail customer’s best interest or not suitable for
the non-retail customer.
B. IFG failed to establish, maintain, and enforce a supervisory system
reasonably designed to supervise excessive trading and achieve
compliance with Reg BI.
Between July 2020 and December 2022, IFG failed to establish, maintain, and enforce a
supervisory system, including WSPs, reasonably designed to supervise excessive trading
and achieve compliance with Reg BI. Specifically, the responsibility for reviewing alerts
that flagged potential excessive trading was shared between compliance staff and
supervisory staff. IFG’s WSPs made compliance staff, who were not responsible for
supervising registered representatives, responsible for reviewing an “Excessive Trading
Report” available through the firm’s clearing firm. The Excessive Trading Report listed
accounts bearing potential indicia of excessive trading and contained relevant data related
to those accounts.
Instead of reviewing the Excessive Trading Report, the firm’s compliance staff reviewed
an internal excessive trade alert, which suffered from certain deficiencies of which the
firm was unaware. The excessive trade alert was generated based on the number of trades
and the amount of commissions and other charges to an account over a rolling ninety-day
period. But unbeknownst to IFG, once staff reviewed (and added a note to) an excessive
trade alert for an account, for the next six months an alert was not generated even if there
3

As of June 30, 2020, FINRA Rule 2111 continues to apply to non-retail customers who are not subject to Reg BI.

3

was activity that met the designated criteria. The firm also did not know that in certain
circumstances alerts stopped appearing for review even if they had not been reviewed.

Additionally, IFG’s procedures failed to provide reasonable guidance about how
compliance personnel should conduct review of excessive trade alerts or when they
should take action based upon the information contained in those alerts. IFG did not
include guidance on the use of cost-to-equity ratios or guidance on what turnover rates
could signal excessive trading. When the firm’s compliance staff reviewed excessive
trade alerts, they frequently closed them without conducting further investigation into
whether the trading was consistent with the customer’s best interest. For example, in June
2021, IFG generated an excessive trade alert concerning the account of a 78-year-old
retiree with a capital preservation investment objective and a moderate risk tolerance
(Customer 1), which alert IFG compliance personnel reviewed and closed. At the time
the alert was generated, the account had, over the prior 12 months, a cost-to-equity ratio
of approximately 23%. As a result of the system described above, the alert’s parameters
did not generate any excessive trade alerts for the next six months. The registered
representative who handled the account continued to place frequent in-and-out, highcommission trades in the account.
IFG’s WSPs contained a provision making supervisory staff responsible for identifying
potential excessive trading through their overall review of client transactions appearing
on trade blotters and trade-by-trade alerts, including a “high-principal solicited trade”
alert. A senior supervisor at IFG, however, instructed supervisory personnel to assess
each alert only as it pertained to the specific trade generating the alert. IFG failed to
provide the firm’s supervisory staff with procedures, tools, or training to identify
potential excessive trading by assessing a series of transactions. IFG provided no
guidance to supervisors regarding what factors might suggest that a representative was
excessively trading an account or what steps they should take if they identified potential
excessive trading.
C. IFG failed to reasonably respond to red flags of excessive trading by a
registered representative who excessively traded five customers’
accounts.
Between July 2020 and December 2022, IFG failed to reasonably respond to repeated red
flags that the representative was excessively trading five customers’ accounts. All five
customers’ accounts repeatedly appeared on the Excessive Trading Report. For example,
between July 2020 and June 2021, three of the customers’ accounts appeared on the
report every month; one customer’s account appeared eleven times; and another
customer’s account appeared six times.
Additionally, all five customers’ accounts triggered multiple excessive trade alerts.
However, IFG compliance staff repeatedly closed those alerts without ever calculating
the cost-to-equity ratio in the affected account.4 The firm contacted two of these
4

As detailed below, during the time period pertinent to this matter, the annualized cost-to-equity ratios in the five
accounts at issue ranged from 13.7% to 27.1%.

4

customers, but did not discuss with them the activity in their accounts. IFG also failed to
restrict the commissions charged, or otherwise take steps to limit the representative’s
excessive trading.
Between July 2020 and December 2022, the representative excessively traded five
customers’ accounts, directing frequent in-and-out trading and causing a level of trading
that was inconsistent with the customers’ investment profiles and that was not in their
best interest or was not suitable.5 Collectively, these five customers paid more than $2.2
million in total trading costs and incurred realized losses totaling approximately $2.2
million.


Customer 1 was a 77-year-old retiree in July 2020, with a capital preservation
investment objective and a moderate risk tolerance. The representative’s trading
produced an annualized cost-to-equity ratio of 20.3%. This customer paid more
than $490,000 in total trading costs and incurred realized losses of more than
$550,000, inclusive of commissions.



Customer 2 was a trust owned by an 88-year-old retiree who, prior to becoming a
customer of the representative, had been diagnosed with Alzheimer’s disease; she
passed in 2022. The trust had an investment objective of growth and income and a
moderate risk tolerance. The representative’s trading produced an annualized
cost-to-equity ratio of 23.4%. This customer paid more than $650,000 in total
trading costs and incurred realized losses of more than $560,000, inclusive of
commissions.



Customer 3 was an engineer with an income investment objective and a moderate
risk tolerance. The representative’s trading produced an annualized cost-to-equity
ratio of 20.3%. This customer paid more than $185,000 in total trading costs and
incurred realized losses of more than $145,000, inclusive of commissions.



Customer 4 was a 69-year-old retired police officer in July 2020, with a capital
appreciation investment objective and a moderate risk tolerance. The
representative’s trading produced an annualized cost-to-equity ratio of 13.7%.
This customer paid more than $110,000 in total trading costs and incurred
realized losses of more than $115,000, inclusive of commissions.



Customer 5 was a dental practice6 with two accounts – one with a capital
appreciation investment objective and moderate risk tolerance and the other with
a growth investment objective and moderately-high risk tolerance. The
representative’s trading in Customer 5’s accounts produced an annualized cost-toequity ratio of 27.1%. This customer paid approximately $788,000 in total trading
costs and incurred realized losses of more than $825,000, inclusive of
commissions.

5

FINRA’s Department of Enforcement filed a Complaint against the representative in October 2023 and accepted
an offer of settlement from the representative in August 2024.
6
Customer 5 is not a retail customer subject to Reg BI and therefore FINRA Rule 2111 applies.

5

By failing to establish, maintain, and enforce a supervisory system, including WSPs,
reasonably designed to supervise actively traded accounts and achieve compliance with
Reg BI and FINRA Rule 2111, IFG violated FINRA Rules 3110 and 2010 and Exchange
Act Rule 15l-1(a)(1). By failing to reasonably supervise a registered representative who
excessively traded five customers’ accounts, IFG violated FINRA Rules 3110 and 2010.
II.

IFG failed to timely and completely respond to FINRA Rule 8210 requests.

FINRA Rule 8210(a) states, in relevant part, that FINRA may require a member “to
provide information orally, in writing, or electronically” and that FINRA may “inspect
and copy the books, records, and accounts of such member . . . with respect to any matter
involved in [a FINRA] investigation [or] examination.” FINRA Rule 8210(c) further
states that “[n]o member . . . shall fail to provide information . . . or to permit an
inspection and copying of books, records, or accounts pursuant to this Rule.” Failing to
provide timely and complete information in response to a FINRA Rule 8210 request
violates FINRA Rules 8210 and 2010.
In August 2022, FINRA sent IFG a request for, among other things, documentation of its
supervisory review of all exceptions, alerts, or other documents to supervise for excessive
trading, active accounts, and excessive commissions for customers of the representative.
IFG’s September 2022 response to that request was incomplete because it failed to
include any of the Excessive Trading Reports available through IFG’s clearing firm and
failed to include any excessive trade alerts that had stopped appearing on the firm’s
system. FINRA sent a series of follow-up requests to IFG to ascertain the completeness
of the firm’s response. In April 2024—after multiple discussions with FINRA, IFG
contacted the service provider that generated the firm’s excessive trade alerts and became
aware that excessive trade alerts could and had stopped appearing even if they had not
been cleared—IFG finally made a complete production of all excessive trade alerts that
had stopped appearing on the firm’s system. In April 2024, IFG also completed its
production of the Excessive Trade Reports.
By failing to timely and completely respond to FINRA’s requests for documents and
information, IFG violated FINRA Rules 8210 and 2010.
B.

Respondent also consents to the imposition of the following sanctions:


a censure;



a $500,000 fine;7 and



an undertaking that within 90 days of the date of the notice of acceptance of this
AWC, a member of IFG’s senior management who is a registered principal
of the firm shall certify in writing that, as of the date of the certification, the firm
has remediated the issues identified in this AWC and implemented a supervisory

7

All customers have already either received restitution or are expected to receive full restitution through a separate
agreement.

6

system, including WSPs, reasonably designed to achieve compliance with Reg BI
and FINRA Rules 3110 and 2010 regarding the issues identified in this AWC.
The certification shall include a narrative description and supporting exhibits
sufficient to demonstrate the firm’s remediation and implementation. FINRA staff
may request further evidence of the firm’s remediation and implementation, and
Respondents agree to provide such evidence. IFG shall submit the
certification to Jessica Moran, Principal Counsel, FINRA Department of
Enforcement, 99 High Street, Suite 900 Boston, MA 02110
(jessica.moran@finra.org), with a copy to EnforcementNotice@finra.org. Upon
written request showing good cause, FINRA staff may extend this deadline.
Respondent agrees to pay the monetary sanction upon notice that this AWC has been
accepted and that such payment is due and payable. Respondent has submitted an
Election of Payment form showing the method by which it proposes to pay the fine
imposed.
Respondent specifically and voluntarily waives any right to claim an inability to pay, now
or at any time after the execution of this AWC, the monetary sanction imposed in this
matter.
The sanctions imposed in this AWC shall be effective on a date set by FINRA.
II.
WAIVER OF PROCEDURAL RIGHTS
Respondent specifically and voluntarily waives the following rights granted under FINRA’s
Code of Procedure:
A.

To have a complaint issued specifying the allegations against it;

B.

To be notified of the complaint and have the opportunity to answer the allegations
in writing;

C.

To defend against the allegations in a disciplinary hearing before a hearing panel,
to have a written record of the hearing made, and to have a written decision
issued; and

D.

To appeal any such decision to the National Adjudicatory Council (NAC) and
then to the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission and a U.S. Court of
Appeals.

Further, Respondent specifically and voluntarily waives any right to claim bias or prejudgment
of the Chief Legal Officer, the NAC, or any member of the NAC, in connection with such
person’s or body’s participation in discussions regarding the terms and conditions of this AWC,
or other consideration of this AWC, including its acceptance or rejection.
7

Respondent further specifically and voluntarily waives any right to claim that a person violated
the ex parte prohibitions of FINRA Rule 9143 or the separation of functions prohibitions of
FINRA Rule 9144, in connection with such person’s or body’s participation in discussions
regarding the terms and conditions of this AWC, or other consideration of this AWC, including
its acceptance or rejection.
III.
OTHER MATTERS
Respondent understands that:
A.

Submission of this AWC is voluntary and will not resolve this matter unless and
until it has been reviewed and accepted by the NAC, a Review Subcommittee of
the NAC, or the Office of Disciplinary Affairs (ODA), pursuant to FINRA Rule
9216;

B.

If this AWC is not accepted, its submission will not be used as evidence to prove
any of the allegations against Respondent; and

C.

If accepted:

D.

1.

this AWC will become part of Respondent’s permanent disciplinary
record and may be considered in any future action brought by FINRA or
any other regulator against Respondent;

2.

this AWC will be made available through FINRA’s public disclosure
program in accordance with FINRA Rule 8313;

3.

FINRA may make a public announcement concerning this agreement and
its subject matter in accordance with FINRA Rule 8313; and

4.

Respondent may not take any action or make or permit to be made any
public statement, including in regulatory filings or otherwise, denying,
directly or indirectly, any finding in this AWC or create the impression
that the AWC is without factual basis. Respondent may not take any
position in any proceeding brought by or on behalf of FINRA, or to which
FINRA is a party, that is inconsistent with any part of this AWC. Nothing
in this provision affects Respondent’s right to take legal or factual
positions in litigation or other legal proceedings in which FINRA is not a
party. Nothing in this provision affects Respondent’s testimonial
obligations in any litigation or other legal proceedings.

Respondent may attach a corrective action statement to this AWC that is a
statement of demonstrable corrective steps taken to prevent future misconduct.
Respondent understands that it may not deny the charges or make any statement
that is inconsistent with the AWC in this statement. This statement does not
8

constitute factual or legal findings by FINRA, nor does it reflect the views of
FINRA.
The undersigned, on behalf of IFG, certifies that a person duly authorized to act on Respondent’s
behalf has read and understands all of the provisions of this AWC and has been given a full
opportunity to ask questions about it; that IFG has agreed to the AWC’s provisions voluntarily;
and that no offer, threat, inducement, or promise of any kind, other than the terms set forth in this
AWC and the prospect of avoiding the issuance of a complaint, has been made to induce IFG to
submit this AWC.
September 5, 2024

Date

____________________________________
Independent Financial Group, LLC
Respondent
Print Name:

Sarah Kreisman

Title: General Counsel/VP, Compliance

Reviewed by:
_______________________
Alan Wolper
Counsel for Respondent
UB Greensfelder LLP
500 W. Madison Street, Suite 3600
Chicago, Illinois 60661
Accepted by FINRA:
Signed on behalf of the
Director of ODA, by delegated authority
September 23, 2024

Date

,k,ssiCA lvlbr~

Jessica Moran
Principal Counsel
FINRA
Department of Enforcement
99 High Street, Suite 900
Boston, MA 02110

9

