FINANCIAL INDUSTRY REGULATORY AU THORITY
LETTER OF ACCEPTANCE, WAIVER, AND CONSENT
NO. 2023077080601

TO:

Department of Enforcement
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA)

RE:

ACP Securities, LLC (Respondent)
Member Firm
CRD No. 139049

Pursuant to FINRA Rule 9216, Respondent ACP Securities, LLC submits this Letter of
Acceptance, Waiver, and Consent (A WC) for the purpose of proposing a settlement of the
alleged rule violations described below. This A WC is submitted on the condition that if
'
accepted, FINRA will not bring any future actions against Respondent alleging violations
based
on the same factual findings described in this A WC.

I.

ACCEPTANCE AND CONSENT
A.

Respondent accepts and consents to the following findings by FINRA without admitting
or denying them:

BACKGROUND
ACP Securities became a FINRA member in 2006. The firm , which is headqua11ered in
Miami, Florida, has three branch offices and 35 registered representatives . The firm
conducts a general securities business. 1

OVERVIEW
From July 2021 to January 2024, ACP Securities did not disclose on the firm ' s customer
relationship summary (Form CRS) that one of its assoc iated persons had disciplinary
history. As a result, ACP Securities willfully violated Section 17(a)(I) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, Exchange Act Rule 17a- 14, and FINRA Rule 20 I 0.

FACTS AND VIOLATIVE CONDUCT
This matter originated from FINRA' s 2023 examination of ACP Securities.
On June 5, 2019, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) adopted Form CRS
and rules creating new requirements-which include requirements to prepare, file and
deliver the Form CRS-for SEC-registered broker-dealers offering services to a retail
investor. The compliance date for Form CRS was June 30, 2020.
1 For more information about the firm , including prior regulatory events, visit BrokerCheck® at
www.finra.org/brokercheck.

Form CRS provides customers with information about the typ s of ervices t\ ·fi.
ot:fers ; the fees ,_costs, conflicts of interest, and required standard of conduct a~so~!:~ed
with thos~ s~rv_1ces; w_h ether the firm and its investment professionals have reportable
legal_ or d1sc1plinary history; and how to get more information about the firm. Form CRS
also includes required "conversation staiters" to help customers begin a discussion with a
broker-dealer about their relationship, includin o the firm ' s services fees costs conflicts
.
.
.
.
.
t,
'
,
'
'
and d1sc1plinary information.
Section 1?(a)(l) o_fthe Exchange Act re~uires registered broker-dealers to make and keep
for prescribed periods such records, furnish such copies thereof, and make and
disseminate such reports as the Commission deems " necessary or appropriate in the
public interest, for the protection of investors or otherwise in furtherance of the purposes
of' the Exchange Act. Exchange Act Rule 17a-14-titled " Form CRS, for preparation,
filing and delivery of Form CRS"-requires broker-dealers offering services to a retail
investor to prepare a Form CRS in accordance with the instructions in Form CRS, and to
comply with requirements related to filing, amending, delivering, and posting the Form
CRS to the firm ' s public website.
Rule l 7a- l 4 also requires broker-dealers to update Form CRS and file it within 30 days
whenever any information in the Form CRS becomes materially inaccurate. The filing
must include an exhibit highlighting changes . The updated Form CRS, with changes
highlighted, or another disclosure that communicates the changes, must be delivered to
retail investors who are existing customers within 60 days after the updates are required
to be made and without charge.
A violation of Exchange Act § 17(a)(1) and Exchange Act Rule 17a-14 is also a violation
of FINRA Rule 2010, which requires member firms to observe high standards of
commercial honor and just and equitable principles of trade in the conduct of their
business.
Form CRS contains the heading, "Do you or your financial professionals have legal or
disciplinary history?" The instructions to Form CRS state that a firm must respond " Yes"
if it or any of its financial professionals disclose, or are required to disclose, legal or
disciplinary history on specified regulatory disclosure forms, such as Forms BD, U4, US,
and U6 . Legal or disciplinary history that is required to be disclosed on those forms
includes criminal history, regulatory actions, civil judicial actions, and specified events
(e.g. , bankruptcies, judgments, and liens).
An individual who became associated with ACP Securities in June 2021 had disciplinary
history, including for using a non-firm-approved communications platform to
communicate with a customer regarding firm business. Information concerning the
associated person ' s disciplinary history was available to the firm through FINRA' s
Central Registration Depository (CRD) and in BrokerCheck®. Nevertheless, ACP
Securities did not update its Form CRS filed in June 2020 to respond "yes" to the
question "Do you or your financial professionals have legal or disciplinary history" with
2

respect to its financial professionals by July 2021. ACP also did not respond " yes'' to this
question with respect to its financial professionals on th Form CRS the firm fi\ed on
May 13 , 2022 , and on December 5, 2023.
On a Form CRS filed on January 4, 2024, ACP Securities amended its Form CRS t t t
" [ ] fi
· I
c
·
osae
o ur 1nanc1a pro1ess1onals do have legal or disciplinary history."
By not disclosing the reportable history of an associated person, ACP Securities willfully
violated Exchange Act § 17(a)(l) and Exchange Act Rule 17a-l 4, and FIN RA Rule 20 JO.
B.

Respondent also consents to the imposition of the following sanctions:
■

a censure; and

■

a $20,000 fine.

Respondent agrees to pay the monetary sanction upon notice that this A WC has been
accepted and that such payment is due and payable. Respondent has submitted an
E lection of Payment form showing the method by which it proposes to pay the fine
imposed.
Respondent specifically and voluntarily waives any right to claim an inability to pay, now
or at any time after the execution of this A WC, the monetary sanction imposed in this
matter.
Respondent understands that this settlement includes a finding that it willfully violated
Section 17a)(1) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and Rule I 7a-14 thereunder, and
that under Article III, Section 4 of FINRA ' s By-Laws, this makes Respondent subject to
a statutory disqualification with respect to membership .
The sanctions imposed in this A WC shall be effective on a date set by FINRA.

II.
WAIVER OF PROCEDURAL RIGHTS
Respondent specifically and voluntarily waives the followin g rights granted under FINRA ' s
Code of Procedure:
A.

To have a complaint issued specifying the allegations against it;

B.

To be notified of the complaint and have the opportunity to answer the allegations
in writing;

C.

To defend against the allegations in a disciplinary hearing before a hearing panel,
to have a written record of the hearing made, and to have a written decision
issued ; and

3

D.

To appeal any such decision to the National Adjudicatory Counci\ (NAC) and
then to the U.S . Securities and Exchange Commission and a U.S. Court of
Appeals.

Further, Respondent specifically and voluntarily waives any right to claim bias or prejudgment
of the Chief Legal Officer, the NAC, or any member of the NAC, in connection with such
person ' s or body ' s participation in discussions regarding the terms and conditions of this A WC,
or other consideration of this A WC, includ ing its acceptance or rejection.
Respondent further specifically and voluntarily waives any right to claim that a person violated
the ex parte prohibitions of FINRA Rule 9143 or the separation of functions prohibitions of
FINRA Rule 9144, in connection with such person ' s or body ' s participation in discussions
regarding the terms and conditions of this A WC, or other consideration of this A WC, including
its acceptance or rejection.

Ill.

OTHER MATTERS
Respondent understands that:
A.

Submission of this A WC is voluntary and will not resolve this matter unless and
until it has been reviewed and accepted by the NAC, a Review Subcommittee of
the NAC, or the Office of Disciplinary Affairs (ODA), pursuant to FINRA Rule
9216;

B.

If this A WC is not accepted, its submission will not be used as evidence to prove
any of the allegations against Respondent; and

C.

If accepted:

1.

this AWC will become pati of Respondent' s permanent disciplinary
record and may be considered in any future action brought by FINRA or
any other regulator against Respondent;

2.

this A WC will be made available through FINRA ' s public disclosure
program in accordance with FINRA Rule 8313 ;

3.

FINRA may make a public announcement concerning this agreement and
its subject matter in accordance with FINRA Rule 8313; and
Respondent may not take any action or make or permit to
made _a ny
public statement, including in regulatory filings or otherwts~, deny,~g,
directly or indirectly, any finding in this A WC or create the 1mpress1on
that the A WC is without factual basis . Respondent may not take any
position in any proceeding brought by or on behalf of FINRA, or to which
FINRA is a party, that is inconsistent with any part of this A WC . Nothing

4.

?e

4

in this provision affects R esp on d en t 's rig ht t

t:,k • I 0 J J u · u ,, u l

positions in litigation or other legal proceedings in which FINRA is not a
pa11y. Nothing in this provision affects Respondent's testimonial
obligations in any litigation or other legal proceedings.
D.

Respondent may attach a corrective action statement to this A WC that is a
statement of demonstrable corrective steps taken to prevent future misconduct.
Respondent understands that it may not deny the charges or make any statement
that is inconsistent with the A WC in this statement. This statement does not
constitute factual or legal findings by FINRA, nor does it reflect the views of
FINRA .

The undersigned, on behalf of Respondent, certifies that a person duly authorized to act on
Respondent ' s behalf has read and understands all of the provisions of this A WC and has been
given a full opportunity to ask questions about it; that Respondent has agreed to the A WC's
provisions voluntarily; and that no offer, threat, inducement, or promise of any kind , other than
the terms set forth in this A WC and the prospect of avoiding the issuance of a complaint, has
been made to induce Respondent to submit this A WC.

Date

ACP Securities, LLC
Respondent
-:-.~r.,-r,o,..__ \

Print Name: v-> 'S11:>1>.--,

;:: . t~(2.S

"'N~
-----------

Title:
Reviewed by:

Michael A . Gross
Counsel for Respondent
UB Greensfelder
2255 Glades Road
Suite 324A
Boca Raton , FL 33431-8571

5

G@o

1'.cccp\.c a 'oy fl

RA:

Signed on behalf of the
Director of ODA, by delegated authority

November 15, 2024
Date

Bruce M. Sabados
Senior Cou nsel
FINRA
Department of Enforcement
200 Liberty Street
New York, NY 10281-1003

6

