FINANCIAL INDUSTRY REGULATORY AUTHORITY
LETTER OF ACCEPTANCE, WAIVER, AND CONSENT
NO. 2023080627902
TO:

Department of Enforcement
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA)

RE:

Richard Mireles (Respondent)
General Securities Principal
CRD No. 5288651

Pursuant to FINRA Rule 9216, Respondent Richard Mireles submits this Letter of Acceptance,
Waiver, and Consent (AWC) for the purpose of proposing a settlement of the alleged rule
violations described below. This AWC is submitted on the condition that, if accepted, FINRA
will not bring any future actions against Respondent alleging violations based on the same
factual findings described in this AWC.
I.
ACCEPTANCE AND CONSENT
A.

Respondent accepts and consents to the following findings by FINRA without admitting
or denying them:
BACKGROUND
Mireles first registered with FINRA in 2007. In May 2010, Mireles registered as a
General Securities Representative through an association with Independent Financial
Group, LLC (CRD No. 7717) (IFG). He also has been registered with FINRA as a
General Securities Principal through IFG since November 2010. Since May 2018,
President of Supervision.1
OVERVIEW
Between July 2020 and December 2022, Mireles failed to reasonably respond to red
flags, which were escalated to him, of excessive trading by a registered representative
counts, and therefore failed to reasonably
supervise, in violation of FINRA Rules 3110 and 2010.
FACTS AND VIOLATIVE CONDUCT
A. Applicable rules.
FINRA Rule 3110 requires a member firm to establish, maintain, and enforce a system,
including written supervisory procedures, to supervise the activities of each associated
person that is reasonably designed to achieve compliance with applicable securities laws

1

For more information about the Respondent, visit BrokerCheck® at www finra.org/brokercheck.

and regulations, and with applicable FINRA rules. The duty to supervise under Rule 3110
also includes the responsibility for firms and their designated supervisors to reasonably
investigate red flags of potential misconduct and to act upon the results of their
investigation.
FINRA Rule 2010 requires associated persons, in the conduct of their business, to
observe high standards of commercial honor and just and equitable principles on trade. A
violation of FINRA Rule 3110 also is a violation of FINRA Rule 2010.
As of June 30, 2020, broker-dealers and their associated persons are required to comply
with Regulation BI under the Securities
Obligation, set forth at Exchange Act Rule 15l-1(a)(2)(ii), requires broker-dealers and
their associated persons to exercise reasonable diligence, care, and skill to, among other
things, have a reasonable basis to believe that a series of recommended transactions is not
Under FINRA Rule 2111(a)2 members and associated persons are required to have a
reasonable basis for believing that a series of recommended transactions are not
excessive.
B. Mireles failed to reasonably respond to red flags, which were escalated to
him, of excessive trading by a registered representative who excessively
Between July 2020 and December 2022, Mireles,
failed to reasonably respond to red flags, which were escalated to him by members of his
team, of an IFG registered representative w
accounts. Mireles supervised IFG lower-level supervisors who reviewed certain of the
July 2020 and December 2022, numerous trades placed by the registered representative in
ared on that alert, which was based on a
ruleset whose parameters were designed to flag solicited trades with a high principal
amount.
Mireles failed to reasonably respond when these indicia of excessive trading were
brought to his attention. The lower-level designated supervisors reviewing trade alerts
developed concerns that the registered repr
accounts and brought these concerns to Mirele
an IFG supervisor alerted Mireles to his concerns about the volume of high-principal
solicited trades that the registered representative was placing in
including the accounts of senior customers. This was the second supervisor to raise such
concerns to Mireles. Mireles, however, directed the supervisor to perform only trade-bytrade assessments to review for compliance with Reg BI and suitability, and not to review
the series of trades that the registered representative was placing within an account for
potential excessive trading.
2

As of June 30, 2020, FINRA Rule 2111 continues to apply to non-retail customers who are not subject to Reg BI.

2

Between July 2020 and December 2022, the registered representative excessively traded
investment profiles and that was not in their best interest or was not suitable. 3
Collectively, these five customers paid more than $2.2 million in total trading costs and
incurred realized losses totaling approximately $2.2 million. For example, one customer
was, in July 2020, a 77-year-old retiree with a capital preservation investment objective
and a moderate risk tolerance. The regist
annualized cost-to-equity ratio of 20.3%. This customer paid more than $490,000 in total
trading costs and incurred realized losses of more than $550,000, inclusive of
commissions. Another account was in the name of a trust owned by a retiree who was 88years old when she died in 2022. The trust account had an investment objective of growth
and income and a moderate risk tolerance.
produced an annualized cost-to-equity ratio of 23.4%. This account paid more than
$650,000 in total trading costs and incurred realized losses of more than $560,000,
inclusive of commissions.
Therefore, from July 2020 through December 2022, Mireles violated FINRA Rules 3110
and 2010.
B.

Respondent also consents to the imposition of the following sanctions:
a four-month suspension from association with any FINRA member in all
principal capacities; and
a $5,000 fine.
Respondent agrees to pay the monetary sanction upon notice that this AWC has been
accepted and that such payment is due and payable. Respondent has submitted an
Election of Payment form showing the method by which he proposes to pay the fine
imposed.
Respondent specifically and voluntarily waives any right to claim an inability to pay, now
or at any time after the execution of this AWC, the monetary sanction imposed in this
matter.
Respondent understands that if he is barred or suspended from associating with any
FINRA member in any principal capacity, he becomes subject to a statutory
disqualification as that term is defined in
incorporating Section 3(a)(39) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Accordingly,
Respondent may not be associated with any FINRA member in any principal capacity,
during the period of the bar or suspension. See FINRA Rules 8310 and 8311.
Furthermore, because Respondent is subject to a statutory disqualification during the

3

ainst the registered representative in October 2023 and
accepted an offer of settlement from the representative in August 2024.

3

suspension, if he remains associated with a member firm in a non-suspended capacity, an
application to continue that association may be required.
The sanctions imposed in this AWC shall be effective on a date set by FINRA.
II.
WAIVER OF PROCEDURAL RIGHTS
Respondent specifically and voluntarily waives the followi
Code of Procedure:
A.

To have a complaint issued specifying the allegations against him;

B.

To be notified of the complaint and have the opportunity to answer the allegations
in writing;

C.

To defend against the allegations in a disciplinary hearing before a hearing panel,
to have a written record of the hearing made, and to have a written decision
issued; and

D.

To appeal any such decision to the National Adjudicatory Council (NAC) and
then to the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission and a U.S. Court of
Appeals.

Further, Respondent specifically and voluntarily waives any right to claim bias or prejudgment
of the Chief Legal Officer, the NAC, or any member of the NAC, in connection with such
garding the terms and conditions of this AWC,
or other consideration of this AWC, including its acceptance or rejection.
Respondent further specifically and voluntarily waives any right to claim that a person violated
the ex parte prohibitions of FINRA Rule 9143 or the separation of functions prohibitions of
FINRA Rule 9144, in connection with such pers
regarding the terms and conditions of this AWC, or other consideration of this AWC, including
its acceptance or rejection.
III.
OTHER MATTERS
Respondent understands that:
A.

Submission of this AWC is voluntary and will not resolve this matter unless and
until it has been reviewed and accepted by the NAC, a Review Subcommittee of
the NAC, or the Office of Disciplinary Affairs (ODA), pursuant to FINRA Rule
9216;
4

B.

If this AWC is not accepted, its submission will not be used as evidence to prove
any of the allegations against Respondent; and

C.

If accepted:
record and may be considered in any future action brought by FINRA or
any other regulator against Respondent;

D.

2.

this AWC will be made availabl
program in accordance with FINRA Rule 8313;

3.

FINRA may make a public announcement concerning this agreement and
its subject matter in accordance with FINRA Rule 8313; and

4.

Respondent may not take any action or make or permit to be made any
public statement, including in regulatory filings or otherwise, denying,
directly or indirectly, any finding in this AWC or create the impression
that the AWC is without factual basis. Respondent may not take any
position in any proceeding brought by or on behalf of FINRA, or to which
FINRA is a party, that is inconsistent with any part of this AWC. Nothing
right to take legal or factual
positions in litigation or other legal proceedings in which FINRA is not a
party. Nothing in this provision affects Responden
obligations in any litigation or other legal proceedings.

Respondent may attach a corrective action statement to this AWC that is a
statement of demonstrable corrective steps taken to prevent future misconduct.
Respondent understands that he may not deny the charges or make any statement
that is inconsistent with the AWC in this statement. This statement does not
constitute factual or legal findings by FINRA, nor does it reflect the views of
FINRA.

Respondent certifies that he has read and understands all of the provisions of this AWC and has
been given a full opportunity to ask questions ab
provisions voluntarily; and no offer, threat, inducement, or promise of any kind, other than the
terms set forth in the AWC and the prospect of avoiding the issuance of a complaint, has been
made to induce him to submit this AWC.

Date

____________________________________
Richard Mireles
Respondent

5

Reviewed by:
_______________________
Alan Wolper
Counsel for Respondent
UB Greensfelder LLP
500 W. Madison Street, Suite 3600
Chicago, Illinois 60661
Accepted by FINRA:
Signed on behalf of the
Director of ODA, by delegated authority

Date

Jessica Moran
Principal Counsel
FINRA
Department of Enforcement
99 High Street, Suite 900
Boston, MA 02110

6

