FINANCIAL INDUSTRY REGULATORY AUTHORITY
LETTER OF ACCEPTANCE, WAIVER, AND CONSENT

NO.2023077092001
TO:

Department of Enforcement
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA)

RE:

The Jeffrey Matthews Financial Group, LL'.€-. '(Respondent)
Member Firm
·
CRD No. 41282

Pursuant to FINRA Rule 9216, Respondent The Jeffrey Matthews Financial Group, L.L.C.
(JMFG) submits this Letter of Acceptance, Waiver, and Consent (AWC) for the purpose of
proposing a settlement of the alleged rule violations described below. This AWC is submitted on
the condition that, if accepted, FINRA will not bring any future actions against Respondent
alleging violations based on the same factual findings described in this AWC.

I.
ACCEPTANCE AND CONSENT
A.

Respondent accepts and consents to the following findings by FINRA without admitting
or denying them:
BACKGROUND
JMFG has been a FINRA member firm since 1996. The firm, which is headquartered in
Florham Park, New Jersey, has nine branch offices and approximately 40 registered
representatives. The firm is a full-service broker-dealer that primarily conducts a
municipal securities business. 1
OVERVIEW
From June 30, 2020, until March 2023, JMF_G failed to establish, maintain, and enforce
written policies and procedures reasonably designed to achieve compliance with
Securities Exchange Act Rule 15!-l(a)(l) (Regulation Best Interest or Reg BI). As a
result, JMFG willfully violated Exchange Act Rule 15!-l(a)(l) and Municipal
Securities Rulemaking Board (MSRB) Rule G-27 and violated FINRA Rules 3110 and
2010.
.
During the same period, JMFG also failed to establish and maintain written
supervisory procedures (WSPs) reasonably designed to achieve compliance with its
Exchange Act Rule 17a-14 obligations to prepare, file, deliver, and update its customer
relationship summary (Form CRS). As a result, JMFG willfully violated MSRB Rule
G-27 and violated FINRA Rules 3110 and 2010.

1 For more information about the firm, including prior regulatory events, visit BrokerCheck® at
www.finra.org/brokercheck.

FACTS AND VIOLATIVE CONDUCT
This matter originated from a FINRA examination of JMFG.

A.

JMFG Failed to Establish Written Policies and Procedures Reasonably
Designed to Achieve Compliance with Regulation Best Interest

As of June 30, 2020, broker-dealers and their associated persons are required to comply
with Regulation BI under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Rule 15/-l(a)(l) of Reg
BI requires a broker, dealer, or a natural person associated with a broker or dealer, when
making a recommendation of any securities transaction or investment strategy involving
securities (including account recommendations) to a retail customer, to act in the best
interest of that retail customer at the time the recommendation is made, without placing
the financial or other interest of the broker, dealer, or associated person ahead of the
interest of the retail customer.
Reg BI's Compliance Obligation, set forth at Exchange Act Rule 15/-l(a)(2)(iv), requires
a broker-dealer to establish, maintain, and enforce written policies and procedures
reasonably designed to achieve compliance with Reg BI. Reg BI's Adopting Release
provides that broker-dealers should consider the nature of that firm's operations and how
to design such policies and procedures to prevent violations from occurring, detect
violations that have occurred, and to correct promptly any violations that have occurred. 2
Additionally, Reg BI's Conflict of Interest Obligation, set forth at Exchange Act Rule
15/-l(a)(2)(iii), requires broker-dealers to establish, maintain, and enforce written
policies and procedures addressing conflicts of interest, defined as interests that might
incline a broker-dealer or an associated person--consciously or unconsciously-to make
a recommendation that is not disinterested. Such procedures must be, among other things,
reasonably designed to identify and mitigate any conflicts of interest associated with
recommendations to retail customers that create an incentive for an associated person to
place the firm's interest, or the associated person's interest, ahead of the customer's
interest. This obligation applies to incentives that are provided to the associated person,
whether by the firm or third parties, that are within the control of or associated with the
broker-dealer's business.
FINRA Rule 3110 requires member firms to establish, maintain, and enforce a
supervisory system, including written procedures, to supervise the activities of each
associated person that is reasonably designed to achieve compliance with applicable
securities laws, regulations, and FINRA rules.
Violations of Reg BI and FINRA Rule 3110 also are violations ofFINRA Rule 2010,
which requires associated persons to "observe high standards of commercial honor and
just and equitable principles of trade" in the conduct of their business.

2 Regulation Best Interest: The Broker-Dealer Standard of Conduct, Exchange Act Release No. 86031, 84 FR 33318
at 33397 (July 12, 2019).

2

MSRB Rule G-27 requires brokers, dealers and municipal securities dealers to establish
and maintain a supervisory system, including written procedures, to supervise the
conduct of their municipal securities activities to ensure compliance with MSRB rules
and applicable provisions of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and Exchange Act
rules.
From June 30, 2020, until March 2023, JMFG failed to establish, maintain, and enforce
written policies and procedures reasonably designed to achieve compliance with Reg BI.
Despite the firm's awareness of Reg Bi's June 30, 2020, implementation date, the firm's
WSPs contained a section titled Reg BI but contained no policies or procedures regarding
complying with Reg Bi's requirements. Further, JMFG's training on Reg BI to its
representatives was inadequate as it focused on suitability rather than the requirements of
Reg BI. 3
Therefore, JMFG willfully violated Exchange Act Rule 151-l(a)(l) and MSRB Rule G-27
and violated FINRA Rules 3110 and-2010.

B.

JMFG Failed to Establish WSPs Reasonably Designed to Achieve
Compliance with Its Form CRS Obligations

On June 5, 2019, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) adopted Form CRS
and rules creating new requirements-which include requirements to prepare, file,
deliver, and update the Form CRS-for SEC-registered broker-dealers offering services
to a retail investor. The compliance date for Form CRS was June 30, 2020.
Form CRS provides customers with information about the types of services the firm
offers; the fees, costs, conflicts of interest, and required standard of conduct associated
with those services; whether the firm and its investment professionals have reportable
legal or disciplinary history; and how to get more information about the firm.
Form CRS also includes required "conversation starters" to help begin a discussion with
a broker-dealer about the relationship, including their services, fees, costs, conflicts, and
disciplinary information.
Section 17(a)(l) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 requires registered brokerdealers to make and keep for prescribed periods such records, furnish such copies thereof,
and make and disseminate such reports as the Commission deems "necessary or
appropriate in the public interest, for the protection of investors or otherwise in
furtherance of the purposes of' the Exchange Act. Exchange Act Rule 17a-14-titled
"Form CRS, for preparation, filing and delivery of Form CRS"-requires broker-dealers
offering services to a retail investor to prepare a Form CRS in accordance with the
instructions in Form CRS, and to comply with requirements related to filing, amending,
delivering, and posting the Form CRS to the firm's public website.
3 After FINRA identified these issues, JMFG revised its WSPs beginning in March 2023 to provide guidance
regarding Reg BI and implemented proper training on Reg BI for its representatives.

3

From June 30, 2020, until March 2023, JMFG failed to establish, maintain, and enforce
WSPs reasonably designed to achieve compliance with Form CRS requirements. During
this period, JMFG's WSPs acknowledged that the firm was required to deliver Form CRS
to all retail customers and detailed a few general procedures regarding Form CRS, but it
did not prescribe any specific procedures for preparing, filing, or updating Form CRS. 4
Therefore, JMFG willfully violated MSRB Rule G-27 and violated FINRA Rules 3110
and 2010.
B.

Respondent also consents to the imposition of the following sanctions:
■

a censure; and

■

a $35,000 fine ($17,500 of which pertains to the violations ofMSRB Rule G-27}.

Respondent agrees to pay the monetary sanction upon notice that this AWC has been
accepted and that such payment is due and payable. Respondent has submitted an
Election of Payment form showing the method by which it proposes to pay the fine
imposed.
Respondent specifically and voluntarily waives any right to claim an inability to pay, now
or at any time after the execution of this AWC, the monetary sanction imposed in this
matter.
Respondent understands that this settlement includes a finding that it willfully violated
Rule 15/-l(a)(l) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and MSRB Rule G-27 and that
under Article III, Section 4 ofFINRA's By-Laws, this makes Respondent subject to a
statutory disqualification with respect to membership.
The sanctions imposed in this AWC shall be effective on a date set by FINRA.
II.
WAIVER OF PROCEDURAL RIGHTS

Respondent specifically and voluntarily waives the following rights granted under FINRA's
Code of Procedure:
A.

To have a complaint issued specifying the allegations against it;·

B.

To be notified of the complaint and have the opportunity to answer the allegations
in writing;

4 After FINRA identified these issues, JMFG revised its WSPs beginning in March 2023 to provide additional

guidance regarding Form CRS.

4

C.

To defend against the allegations in a disciplinary hearing before a hearing panel,
to have a written record of the hearing made, and to have a written decision
issued; and

D.

To appeal any such decision to the National Adjudicatory Council (NAC) and
then to the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission and a U.S. Court of
Appeals.

Further, Respondent specifically and voluntarily waives any right to claim bias or prejudgment
of the Chief Legal Officer, the NAC, or any member of the NAC, in connection with such
person's or body's participation in discussions regarding the terms and conditions of this AWC,
or other consideration of this AWC, including its acceptance or rejection.
Respondent further specifically and voluntarily waives any right to claim that a person violated
the ex parte prohibitions of FINRA Rule 9143 or the separation of functions prohibitions of
FINRA Rule 9144, in connection with such person's or body's participation in discussions
regarding the terms and conditions of this AWC, or other consideration of this AWC, including
its acceptance or rejection.

m.
OTHER MATTERS
Respondent understands that:
A.

Submission of this AWC is voluntary and will not resolve this matter unless and
until it has been reviewed and accepted by the NAC, a Review Subcommittee of
the NAC, or the Office of Disciplinary Affairs (ODA), pursuant to FINRA Rule
9216;

B.

If this AWC is not accepted, its submission will not be used as evidence to prove
any of the allegations against Respondent; and

C.

If accepted:
1.

this AWC will become part of Respondent's permanent disciplinary
record and may be considered in any future actiori brought by FINRA or
any other regulator against Respondent;

2.

this AWC will be made available through FINRA's public disclosure
program in accordance with FINRA Rule 8313;

3.

FINRA may make a public announcement concerning this agreement and
its subject matter in accordance with FINRA Rule 8313; and

5

4.

D.

Respondent may not take any action or make or permit to be made any
public statement, including in regulatory filings or otherwise, denying,
directly or indirectly, any finding in this A WC or create the impression
that the AWC is without factual basis. Respondent may not take any
position in any proceeding brought by or on behalf ofFINRA, or to which
FINRA is a party, that is inconsistent with any part of this AWC. Nothing
in this provision affects Respondent's right to take legal or factual
positions in litigation or other legal proceedings in which FINRA is not a
party. Nothing in this provision affects Respondent's testimonial
obligations in any_litigation or other legal proceedings.

Respondent may attach a corrective action statement to this AWC that is a
statement of demonstrable corrective steps taken to prevent future misconduct.
Respondent understands that it may not deny the charges or make any statement
that is inconsistent with the A WC in this statement. This statement does not
constitute factual or legal findings by FINRA, nor does it reflect the viewSof
FINRA.

The undersigned, on behalf of Respondent, certifies that a person duly authorized to act on
Respondent's behalf has read and understands_all of the provisions of this A WC and has been
given a full opportunity to ask questions abo'trr it; that Respondent has agreed to the A WC's
provisions voluntarily; and that no offer, threat, inducement, or promise of any kind, other than
the terms set forth in this A WC and the prospect of avoiding the issuance of a complaint, has
peen made to induce Respondent to submit this AWC.

~

//
C , r.

. The Jeffrey ~ n c i a l Group, L.L.C.
Respondent

Date

Reviewed by:

~~~

..

::::>

Counsel for Respondent
Bressler, Amery & Ross, P.C.
325 Columbia Turnpike
Suite 301
Florham Park, NJ 07932

6

Accepted by FINRA:
Signed on behalf of the
Director of ODA, by delegated authority

July 19, 2024
Date

!Lik/8

Counsel
FINRA
Department of Enforcement
Brookfield Place, 200 Liberty Street
New York, NY 10281

7

